…. ASOLUWATOYIN IS APPOINTED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (NAHCO aviance) has announced the appointment of Mr. Sehinde Fadeni Oladapo as its Chairman, Board of Directors.  Oladapo takes over from Arc Usman Arabi Bello, who resigned from the position on Thursday, October 25, 2018.  In a notice sent to the Nigerian Stock Exchange, (NSE), the Company stated that the appointment of Mr. Oladapo, who is the founder and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of GMT Energy Resources Limited, took effect on October 25, 2018.  The new NAHCO Chairman had his higher education at the University of Lagos where he bagged a Bachelor of Science Degree in Biology. A well – traveled entrepreneur, he has attended various seminars and courses all over the world, including the Owners/President Management (OPM) programme at Harvard. He is also an Associate Member of the Nigeria Institute of Management (AMNIM), Nigerian Institute of Credit Management and the Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce and Industry.  A recipient of several merit awards, Oladapo is highly acclaimed by professional bodies in Nigeria in recognition of his many contributions to nation building.  Oladapo sits on the boards of a number of companies including MCI FZE Yard Development Limited, a joint venture between MCI FZE and Samsung Heavy Industries Nigeria where Total Upstream Nigeria Limited and her partners integrated their EGINA FPSO’s 6 topside modules; the Badagry Ship-repair Maintenance Engineering Consortium (BSMEC) and Elect & Chosen Limited, a reputable interior design and furniture supply company.  He runs GMT, where he brings his great wealth of experience to bear on providing strategic direction and leadership in corporate reputation and sustainability and commercial negotiations.  His is credited with incredible foresight and matchless skills in perceiving business needs and creating solutions to address such needs, Mr.  Oladapo had over the years developed a network of high value contacts in international and domestic business communities, including the local and global regulators. In the same vein: the Company as announced appointment of Mr. Salam Taofeeq Oluwatoyin as Non-Executive Director. Oluwatoyin took the sit vacated by Mr. Ahmed T. Uwais on the board.  A top-notch lawyer, Oluwatoyin obtained an LLB (Hons) from the University of Ilorin, Nigeria, a Barrister at Law from the Nigerian Law School and LLM from the University of East Anglia, Norwich, England (UK).  Mr. Oluwatoyin is a member of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), International Bar Association, Chartered Institute of Arbitrators (UK) and Institute of Directors (IOD), and serves as the Managing Partner of Canary Legal, a corporate and commercial law firm. He leads the firm’s corporate governance, company secretarial and legal advisory practice group, advises clients locally and internationally on Foreign Investment, Project Financing and Public-Private Partnerships (PPP).  He was at Rosehill Group Limited, a diversified investment Holding Company with interests in Infrastructure, Aviation, Real Estate, Hospitality, and Construction, as the Head of Legal and Compliance Department and subsequently rose to become the Managing Director of Rosehill Group Limited.  He is also on the Board of Asokoro Island, Sycor Private Investment Limited and Central Cement and Logistics (CENCEM).