The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is seeking the collaboration of the academia to grow the industry and impact positively on not only the subscribers but also the environment. Its Executive Vice Chairman/CEO, Prof Garba Dambatta, who spoke during the roundtable with the academia in Lagos, said the advancement of technology across several spheres of human endeavor has created new industries, opportunities, new knowledge areas and challenges. This, he said, has increased the speed at which alignment between the different stakeholders in the economy needed to take place to ensure no aspect of development is left lagging. He said: “Traditionally, as we all know, regulation lags innovation. Thus, in the fast moving technology ecosystem, the need for regulators to raise their game to ensure regulations are relevant to existing realities is pertinent. This will ensure that the maximum benefit in innovation can be harnessed, and the potential risks mitigated on a timely basis. “In general, the academia is a key driver of innovation in all spheres of human endeavours. But in specific terms, the ideas, inventions and improvements that emanate from the academia are required by industry for improved efficiencies and productivity. With these in mind, the regulator as a critical component of any ecosystem aims to ensure all stakeholders are protected and the industry nurtured for maximum benefit to business and society.” According to Dambatta, the growth of new technologies such as internet of things (loT), Artificial Intelligence (Al), Cloud Computing, increased delivery of speed by various broadband technologies such as 4G and 5G technologies, advancement in processor and other electronics technologies have led to huge opportunities and risks. This, he said, has led to “the need for collaboration between academia, industry and regulators to ensure these technologies can be properly harnessed and standards built in such a way that is beneficial to all stakeholders”. The potential opportunities and important aspects that should be considered by all stakeholders are critical aspects that academia are invited to research and proffer pragmatic solutions, he added. “The future is something we should be ready for, and adapt to, or we should see the future as something which we can create. I want to look at three areas which are fundamental to the future. Firstly, I want to briefly look at innovation in terms of new ideas in ICT. Secondly, I want to look at industry growth in terms of building capabilities and stronger industry systems through a collaborative, academia-industry-led approach. I will also want to look at sustainability. For technology to be sustainable, it should imply that using it does not have any long-term adverse effect on the environment. And thirdly, perhaps the most important for this forum, I want to look at the role of the regulator in promoting synergy between the academia and the industry,” he said. According to him, innovation is seen as a way to breaking away from the old and embracing new technologies. “Innovate or Die” is a slogan used by many business enterprises. In perspective, innovation to the telcos can be a linear machine to deliver what they deliver best.  Every telecom provider will aspire to transform into that new agile future -looking telecom firm. “Recognising this increasing phenomenon, the Commission has, among other things, directed funds to encourage innovation by boosting research and development (R&D) in universities across the country. I am glad to say that our universities are making good progress in ICT R&D,’ he said. He said the NCC strives to ensure the engagement of all stakeholders to improve efficiency and impact consumers positively. The telecoms industry for example has enormous potential for enabling environmental, social and economic benefits through broadband connectivity, he posited, adding that as it continues to experience exponential traffic growth, network energy consumption is emerging as a critical issue. “In the last two decades, telecoms has emerged as a key driver of economic and social development in an increasingly knowledge intensive global scenario. It is said that “The greatest threat to our planet is the belief that someone else will save it”. To sustain the standard of living of an ever increasing Nigerian population, a strategy for continual development in telecoms technology needs to be given attention and timely research in that area be conducted by the academia that will result in minimal impact on the environment. ICT can bring about social benefit as well as economic development. Research contributes towards industry and sustainable technological development should not occur exclusively by means of efforts developed in labs or publication of papers. “We need to collaborate with an emphasis on determination on development of prototypes that meet the standards required by the industry. Academia is challenged to study the impact of various practices and issues peculiar to Nigerian operating environment on the operational efficiency and service delivery capability and performance by telecoms industry players for example to subscribers. It will surely be an interesting read to see the new insights this may provide,” Dambatta said.