The National Lottery Regulatory Commission (“the Commission”) last week temporarily shut down our operations in Abuja and our Corporate Head office in Iganmu, Lagos from the demand for payment of certain disputed fees which the Commission is claiming from our company for our various consumer sales promotions. No Court Order was shown to us by the officials of the Commission with regard to the shutting down of our company premises. Prior to the above actions, the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association (NECA) on behalf of its member companies (including Nigerian Breweries Plc) had instituted an action at the Federal High Court (FHC) in Suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/306/12 against the Commission challenging the powers of the Commission to regulate consumer sales promotions in the country moreso as they form part of the marketing and sales activities of the concerned companies. The matter is subsisting at the Court of Appeal in Suit No: CA/A/267/2016, the appeal having been brought at the instance of the Commission. A cross-appeal was subsequently instituted by NECA against the decision of the FHC. As a law abiding corporate citizen, Nigerian Breweries Plc has always ensured that all our consumer sales promotions are vetted and approved by the Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) and the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). Since being established over 70 years ago, Nigerian Breweries Plc has remained one of the highest contributors to government revenue through taxes and levies paid to various levels of government. In 2017, we contributed by way of taxes and other levies, about N75 billion to the treasury at both the Federal and State levels. Our Company has always ensured that it complies with all legitimate demands of government agencies which are in accordance with the rule of law and has never sought to or seek to deprive government of its legitimate revenue. Nigerian Breweries Plc is committed to winning with Nigeria and will continue to engage with all the appropriate stakeholders while seeking to protect and uphold its reputation as a good corporate citizen in the country.