The Chief Executive Officer, GT Bank, Segun Agbaje, has emphasised the need for Nigeria’s banking sector to reinvent itself by deploying the use of Information and Communications Technology to be competitive in the global banking industry. Agbaje at the launch of the bank’s  latest online platform for payments, socialising, trading and sharing information ‘Habari’, explained that most banks would not survive going into the future, maintaining that banks that prioritise focus on fin techs, recruitment of smart people and innovation were the most likely to succeed in the nearest future. “The banks that will survive must reinvent themselves or choose to be left out. The future of banking is digital, but a lot of banks will not survive because most of them have not seen the future. “By reimagining the role of banking and driving innovation in how we serve the customers, we have created one of the very first steps on a very big step into where we are going by launching Habari.” According to him, the bank will continue to evolve to build new things into the platform, saying that Habari is for customers to do all the things they want all on their fingertips. “Habari will stream music, which means you will be able to listen to all the music you like, it will also give customers the opportunity to shop and buy anything you want. Habari will also provide content, giving users opportunities to read magazines. It will also avail the opportunity to meet people because it is going to be one of the largest communities in Africa and finally because we are bankers, we have also created a very robust payment platform on Habari,” he said. He added that Habari “is an open system where customers do not have to bank with GT bank to get access to it. “Habari is not all about us. What we have created today is really a bank that customers want and not a bank we want. The Habari you see today is just the first step of a long journey, we will continue to evolve because as long as you will change as human beings, Habari can never be a finished product and because as you change, your needs change, we are going to incorporate your needs into the platform, so it is a constantly evolving product,” he added.