The House of Representatives’ Committee on Science and Technology has asked the Federal Government to increase budgetary allocations to the Nigerian Building and Road Research Institute, and other research institutes across the country. The committee noted that this would help the institutions to bridge the gap in research and development, adding that the Federal Government needed to prioritise funding to these institutions. The Committee Chairman, Beni Lar, said this during an oversight visit to the NBRRI in Ota, Ogun State, on the activities of the institute in respect to the 2018 budget implementation. “The overwhelming lack of a link between research and development, research centres and industries, research innovations and products diversifications and utilisations are not healthy for the growth of the nation’s technological advancement. These gaps need to be closed if we must reap the full benefits of technology,” she said. Lar said the committee would collaborate with the NBRRI to ensure 100 per cent capital release for its 2018 budget as against the 50 per cent release to the institute in the 2017 fiscal year. “We are mindful of the piecemeal capital releases to the institute, which undeniably, has affected the pace of its operations. This situation is not peculiar to NBBRI,” she added. The committee commended NBRRI for living up to the expectations of its forbearers since it was established in 1977 for the purpose of capacity building, as well as research and development in building and road construction. Lar said the committee would help to fast-track the enactment of the Institute enabling Act, in view of its potential on the operation of NBRRI. The Director-General of NBRRI, Prof. Danladi Matawal, said the institute had built capacity over the last 40 years in roads construction and developing new materials for the country’s construction sector. “All across the country, we have empowered our zonal offices to carry out tests on materials as well as develop facilities for research officers to train artisans and professionals in the building and construction industry,” he said.