L-R: Director General, Directorate of Technical Cooperation in Africa (DTCA), Amb. Abdullahi Sulaiman, Permanent Secretary (FMC), Mrs. Nkechi Ejele and EDO State Permanent Secretary of Science and Technology, Dare Dania during the 6th  National Council on Communication Technology (NCCT) which has a theme “Leveraging ICT as the Veritable Vehicle for Economic Recovery and Growth” in Abeokuta. The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Communications has pointed out that Federal Government places a lot of premium on using ICT to increase the productivity frontiers and achieve economic diversification in the country. She made the remarks during the opening ceremony of the 6th National Council on Communication Technology (NCCT) taking place in Abeokuta, Ogun State with a theme “Leveraging ICT as the Veritable Vehicle for Economic Recovery and Growth” in Abeokuta. In her words “the theme of this year’s meeting which is leveraging ICT as a veritable vehicle for National Economy recovery and growth is relevant and timely coming at a time the nation is grappling with many socioeconomic problems” She urged participants to ensure that due diligence is done and ensure recommendations that can stand the test of time adding that it is responsibility of the experts in the meeting to  discuss and advise council on how ICT can be leveraged to support government strategies for economic recovery and growth. The Permanent Secretary noted that the council would be considering policy memoranda, information notes and presentations on various dimensions of ICT development which emanated from Federal government Ministries, Departments, Agencies, State Governments and presentations from invited private stakeholders. L-R: Special Adviser on ICT to the Ogun State Governor, Mr. Bunmi Adebayo, Permanent Secretary (FMC), Mrs. Nkechi Ejele, Director E-Government, Mr. Tope Fashedemi, Director, Policy Research and Statistics, Mr. John Eweama and Ogun State, Director (ICT), Bunmi Adebayo Earlier, the Special Adviser on ICT to the Ogun State Governor, Mr. Bunmi Adebayo revealed that Ogun State government provided the longest 250 kilometer Fiber optic layout in the country and deployment of a satellite-based ICT solution to deliver precision management to agriculture. He noted that Nigeria can shift from oil-based to an ICT and innovation driven economy once the ecosystem realized the interpolation of all elements against working in isolation noting that a connected Ecosystem for ICT, all elements of the life-cycle has to be connected and work together”