…As ACADEMY GRADUATES 325 MARINE ENGINEERS. From Right: Representing the Honourable Minister of Transportation, The Director Maritime Services, Umar Galadanchi, the Executive Director Operations NIMASA, Engr. Rotimi Fashakin, the Rector of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Commodore Duja Effedua and a Maritime Stakeholder at the 2018 passing out parade and graduating ceremony of the institution. The Rector of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria, Commodore Duja Effedua has announced that the Academy is partnering the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA to ensure that the training facilities in Oron are in line with internationally acceptable specifications to attain compliance with the International Convention on Standards of Training and Watch-keeping for Seafarers (STCW 1978) and as amended in 2010. Commodore Effedua who announced this during the 2018 passing out parade and graduating ceremony at the institution noted that fully equipped multimedia classrooms with fire training grounds and custom purpose built swimming pool as well as realistic simulation environment are some of the new innovations his team and NIMASA are working on. “we have structured, we have implemented, we have set out milestones and have gotten 60% right. Presently we are sourcing for qualified lecturers home and abroad. We are also remodelling the class rooms, hostels as well as the libraries and I am glad to announce that the management of NIMASA has promised to be with us all the way” he said. Speaking further, Commdore Effedua disclosed that a new simulation centre which NIMASA has commenced the process of equipping to international training standards is under construction. According to the Rector “Dr Dakuku is such a person who matches action with his words. NIMASA has commenced the process of acquiring a simulator amongst other equipment for training of our cadets to ensure that Certificates of Competencies (CoCs) issued here attain global recognition. I believe before the end of the 2019 academic session, we shall be one of the best Maritime Academies in Africa. In a goodwill message delivered at the 2018 passing out parade ceremony, the Director General of NIMASA, Dr Dakuku Peterside assured students and stakeholders of the Agency’s commitment to capacity development in the sector.The Executive Director Operations NIMASA, Engr. Rotimi Fashakin, receiving compliments from one of the graduating studentents of Maritime Academy Oron, during the 2018 passing out parade and graduating ceremony of the institution. The NIMASA DG who was represented by the Agency’s Executive Director Operations Engr. Rotimi Fashakin commended the Rector and his team for judicious utilization of funds disbursed to MAN Oron by NIMASA with an assurance that NIMASA will work with relevant national and international bodies to ensure MAN Oron attains its rightful place amongst maritime training institutions globally. “Since Simulators are not acquired off the shelf, NIMASA and MAN Oron management have commenced the process of building one to specification for the simulation centre here. Our goal is to ensure Man Oron attracts not only Nigerians, but also international students so we can completely domesticate maritime trainings here in Nigeria”, he said. A total of 613 graduates made up of 325 Marine Engineers, 142 Nautical Scientists and 146 Maritime Transport Engineers were awarded Diploma Certificates at various levels. The Maritime Academy of Nigeria is Nigeria’s premier maritime institution, charged with the responsibility of training all Level of manpower to man Merchant Navy Ships, Ports, Maritime Engineering Workshops, Pilotage, Shipyards and other Marine related industries. The Academy is listed in the International Maritime Organization’s White list of Institutions that have fully complied with the STCW 1978 Convention, as amended in 2010. The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, NIMASA by law is responsible for funding the institution by providing 5% of its revenue to MAN Oron. Following the need to upgrade the Institution as well as the NIMASA Management’s policy of ensuring that the sector does not suffer from the dearth of trained and certified seafarers the Agency is willing to go beyond its statutory funding of the institution in order to ensure certificates issued by the MAN Oron are of international repute.  