In 2010, Nigeria expressed its commitment to reduce the number of financially-excluded adults from 46.3% to 20% by 2020. This ambition was reinforced with the introduction of a National Financial Inclusion Strategy in 2012, wherein various tools were proposed to drive inclusion. Despite the implementation of these, the number of excluded adults still increased from 34.9 million (39.5%) in 2014 to 36.9 million (41.6%) in 2016. This begs the question, ‘What are we doing wrong?’  Developing and providing long-term solutions that create the desired impact require a complete understanding the people at whom the solutions are targeted. Traditionally, Financial Service Provider (FSP) segmentation is conducted by grouping segments of the population by gender, age, profession, location and education; this model, however, does not accommodate for how the combination of grouping factors determines the people’s needs, preferences and patterns of behaviour.  Bottom of the Pyramid personas — the poorest and most underserved socio-economic group — make up majority of the financially-excluded, and as with most efforts at reaching and appealing to a target group, designing effective interventions requires an in-depth understanding their unique characteristics — who they are; how they act; and why they act the way they do.  The Sustainable and Inclusive Digital Financial Services Initiative (SIDFS) of the Lagos Business School (LBS) recently undertook a study into the behavioural and attitudinal traits of the Bottom of the Pyramid (BoP) population. This study (developed in collaboration with Dalberg, with the support of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation), sub-divides the general Nigerian population into 6 unique personas, including: the vulnerable believers; resilient savers; dependent individualists; skeptical cultivators; digital youth and confident optimists. The “vulnerable believers” (who make up 12% of the general population) are a predominantly rural-based population; they are religious, with limited education, use financial services infrequently and their income instability leads to difficulty with paying their bills. Their level of income instability could make savings products and financial planning particularly attractive to this group. Their low technology usage in combination with only 55% living a minimum of 30 minutes from a bank makes the agent banking model a more effective means through which to reach them and cater to their needs. Dependent individualists (22%), who have a lower than average trust in banks, and a reliance on others to make financial decisions for them, will also likely have a greater affinity for the direct one-on-one engagement and personalised service provision that agent banking provides.  Resilient savers (21%) are primarily men who are responsible for household financial decisions, and save frequently (largely for emergencies) through family, friends, and groups. Their strong savings habits indicate the strength of their propensity for long-term investment plans. Their regard of financial services as complex makes this group particularly in need for improved financial literacy initiatives. More importantly, as frequent users of mobile and digital financial services, this presents a suitable channel through which to reach and communicate with them.  Skeptical cultivators (12%) are also a rural sub-group, usually older than average individuals who struggle with planning, but excel at saving; they distrust banks and the broader community and are most likely to trust only those they have known for long. As they don’t have a strong affinity for technology, approaches such as mobile money would prove ineffective, and there is a clear necessity for enhanced financial literacy efforts, and agent banking would prove to be most effective as including this group in the financial system. The impending launch of Payment Service Bank licenses will introduce new industries into the financial services market, and this study emphasises the need for these organisations to take the time to filter their databases according to the most critical characteristics (gender, locations, and professions); in addition to spending a significant amount of time gaining an understanding of this audience’s affinity, attitudes, familiarity and behaviours related to financial services and FSPs. What is particularly clear is that these BoP personas require a significant amount of trust-building for all communication efforts to be effective. Leveraging existing brand familiarity, especially with skeptical cultivators, will engender trust amongst these audiences and enhance the likelihood of including them in the financial system.  If FSPs keep adopting one-size-fits-all approaches and creating products from the standpoint of what they think consumers need as opposed to what consumers actually need, they are likely to misidentify their needs. With the dependent individualists, for example, who have a lower-than-average trust in banks, efforts need to be focused on forming and building relationships as opposed to developing products. This continuous focus on investing in products and channels that miss the mark are more likely to slow down the process of financial inclusion in the country. Most importantly, understanding these individuals, and taking actions that showcase that understanding is likely to breed trust. According to CGAP, BoP customers will not automatically trust financial service providers; this disposition will only be a direct outcome of a successful design and an embedded customer-centric approach.  Author By  Usoro Anthony Usoro: Usoro Anthony Usoro is the General Manager of Mobile Financial Services at MTN Nigeria 