Heads of States, Presidents of Development Finance Institutions (DFIs), investors, business moguls and other stakeholders said the recently concluded inaugural Africa Investment Forum 2018 was an unprecedented game changer for Africa. The African Development Bank (AfDB) said this in a statement in Abuja. The reports state that the Forum is a co-financing and de-risking platform that brought together DFIs, Multilateral Development Banks,  investors, project sponsors and the private sector to help bridge Africa’s investment financing gap. The value of boardroom projects discussed during the Forum was 47 billion dollars, while investment interest secured for 49 projects was worth 38.7 billion dollars as at Nov. 12. The statement quoted the South Africa’s President Cyril Ramaphosa as describing the Forum as an innovative implementation platform that lays the ground work for a new era of working together. Ramophosa said the platform would propel Africa toward its goal of a more prosperous, united and integrated continent. Ethiopia’s first female President, Sahle-Work Zewde, says looking at Africa only through the lens of peace and security is not getting us anywhere, according to the state. “We have to address the perceived risk on the continent and change this mind-set.” Also speaking, Mr Emma Wade-Smith, British Trade Commissioner for Africa, said the UK planned on becoming the leading investment and trading partner with Africa among the Group of Seven (G7) countries. Wade-Smith also announced that the British government was putting significant effort into reducing risk and the cost of business across the continent’s borders. A Business Mogul, Aliko Dangote said “we have the potential and if we make this potential a reality, we can make Africa great.’’ Ashish Thakkar, the founder of Mara Corporation, announced the launch of the first made-in-Africa mobile phone, one of the highlights of the Forum which drew more than 1,000 participants. “This project will show the potential and ability of Africa to produce high quality and affordable smartphones in Africa, by Africans, for Africans and for the rest of the world. “We are extremely grateful for the AfDB’s push in this sector which greatly encouraged our progress,’’ Thakkar said. “Basil El Baz, CEO of Carbon Holdings commended the organisers, saying that “in my decades of global experience I have not seen a meeting like this.’’ Addressing participants at the closing of the forum, AfDB President, Akinwumi Adesina, said: “this is an incredible outcome for a first-time event’’. “This is just the beginning and a preview of what is still potentially possible to advance increased investment on the continent,” the Bank President said. The approximately 350 institutional investors from 53 countries across the globe were in attendance with 30 of these representing African countries. Other participants were from the United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, France, the United States, China, Japan and Switzerland. The second edition of the Africa Investment Forum has been scheduled to hold in Nov. 2019.