The Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN) has announced a series of weeklong activities to mark its 25thanniversary, culminating in the ADVAN marketing excellence awards slated for the 18th of November. The ADVAN anniversary week with the theme “The Power of Story Telling” gives the leading marketing association in Nigeria and its members the opportunity to emphasize on the strategic importance of story telling in nation building and driving economic growth , a role they have played so well over the last 25 years.  In a statement in Lagos, the President of the association, Mrs. Folake Ani-Mumuney says marketing communications  contribution to the growth of  commercial activity in Nigeria  is clear and quite commendable and should be celebrated. According to her with a total advertising budget in excess of N88 billion in 2017 as reported by Media Monitoring Services, the growing impact of the Nigerian organized private sector, both listed and non-listed on the stock exchange cannot be ignored. “Successes recorded by these businesses cannot be complete without marketing communication, which is a key function driving visibility and market penetration” she noted.  Further, Mrs. Ani-Mumuney revealed that ADVAN Executives have been given the rare privilege to visit  the Nigerian Stock Exchange and Ringing of the Market Closing Bell as an attestation to the significant role ADVAN plays in the Nigerian economy classified as the biggest economy in Africa.  Speaking on the ADVAN Marketing Excellence Awards, the ADVAN President reiterated that the award is an opportunity to showcase brands that have been able to tell interesting stories through compelling narrative enabling them achieve extraordinary success from innovative and effective marketing practices. She said this year’s theme is well thought out to resonate with what Nigerian brands stands for over the last 25 years and this was a deciding factor in choosing multiple award winning Producer and Director Femi Odugbemi as keynote speaker.  In her words “the ADVAN Awards for Marketing Excellence is undoubtedly the most respected Awards for Marketing Excellence in Nigeria, it has evolved over the years in response to new developments in marketing theory and practice to reflect the growing appreciation of the critical role of marketing as the vital source of value creation for business”.  Further, she says the ADVAN Awards “provides the opportunity for organizations to gain competitive advantage by having their projects, initiatives, contributions, products and services recognized. The Awards is the ultimate platform for improving brand awareness, loyalty, retentions and prestige. The ADVAN Awards winners are acknowledged as industry leaders and named the elite in their industry”.  Mrs Ani-Mumuney announced that Mr Arjan Mirchandani Chairman Sona Group of Industries will be the Chairman for the 2018 Award.