The Federal Inland Revenue Service on it Special Day as part of the activities lined up for the ongoing 2018 Lagos International Trade Fair, Babatunde Fowler Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) said acknowledging the steadfastness, consistency and determination of the organizers of this important fair – the preeminent Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry and with the present situation of the economy, they have decided to focus on the very cogent theme of Connecting Business, Creating Value.  Fowler who was represented at event by mrs Angel Fadahunsi pointed out that the present administration has always lent its voice to the campaign for the reinvigoration of the non-oil sector as an effective alternative to oil resources and is not unmindful of the need to create an enabling environment for the private sector to thrive. For a forum like this, where private and public sectors operators pitch their tents side by side to showcase their products and services, emphasis will always be on the value which each participant can extract from one another, he added.  The FIRS boss disclosed that FIRS has recorded remarkable performance in terms of revenue collection this year which stood at N4.3trillion as at October 31st, 2018  “However, we realize that this performance wouldn’t have been possible but for the present administration’s policies of expanding the nation’s tax base and blocking revenue leakages.  You may be aware that we have recently focused our attention on businesses with over a billion naira in annual turnover but no record of commensurate payment of their tax obligations; approximately 6000 plus of such companies have been identified and contacted by the Service leveraging on various data sources; we will continue to focus on recovering all such revenues due to the Federal Government and the people of Nigeria. We encourage the business community and all well-meaning citizens to continue to partner with us to ensure that defaulters are traced and face the consequences while compliant businesses receive all the support they require.   “On our part, we are working hard to ensure that the FIRS is in full alignment with all efforts to grow national revenue from taxation while easing the administrative burdens inherent.  We place emphasis on human resources as one of several tools to achieve our aim of expanding the tax net- this is why we recently recruited young Nigerians to support our bid to effectively provide adequate services to all the nooks and crannies of the country.  In Fowler’s words “In conjunction with the National Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) we have developed a concise document on tax incentives available to investors, whether local or international.”  “It is our earnest belief that these incremental steps will boost the voluntary compliance rate and eventually result in steady growth in revenue available for national advancement.  We acknowledge that the challenges and opportunities revealed by our economic situation require creative innovations and to this end, we have adopted engagement, collaboration and the technology as key facets of our approach to seize these opportunities and address such challenges.  He said it is our hope that the vibrant, vocal Lagos business community will regularly interact with us, sharing thoughts on how we can ensure that we make taxation the pivot of development at all levels of government.