Canadian investors who are interested in the Nigerian mining sector can enjoy incentives and conducive environment needed for their investments to thrive, Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, has said. Osinbajo gave the assurance at the on-going two-day, Nigeria-Canada Investment Summit with the theme: Fostering Strong Business Partnership into the Future. Osinbajo affirmed the tremendous opportunities for increased scope of trade and investment between Canada and Nigeria as he stressed the need to fully realise Nigeria’s immense investment potential. He cited the inauguration of the Presidential Enabling Environment Committee which he chairs as part of government’s efforts at improving the ease of doing business in Nigeria. The committee, according to him, was charged with progressively removing the challenge faced by investors in doing business in Nigeria and ensure coordination across several ministries and agencies of government. He said, “With the support of the leadership of the National Assembly and state governments, we were able to drive reforms that gave us a place as one of the world’s 10 most performing economies.” The Vice President expressed confidence that government’s on-going efforts of harnessing the entrepreneurial energy of Nigeria’s youthful population, would bring about meaningful contributions to the country’s GDP and in developing homegrown solutions that would help the country achieve sustainable development goals. He noted that the Nigeria Economic Recovery Growth Plan of the government had identified some of the sectors that many Canadian investors were already familiar with as priority sectors. These, according to him, include power generation, devolvement of gas to power, mining and solid minerals, agriculture, food processing, manufacturing and real estate. The Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Mr Bawa Bwari, said the history of Nigerian Mining Reform would not be complete without mentioning the positive roles that Canada, and Canadians played in helping to midwife it.