According to the report, the upgrade will increase production at the unit to 0.5Mt/yr adding that the company will exports cement from the plant to neighbouring Niger. The report also disclosed that the new line will run on coal and natural gas combined. Sokoto Cement is one of the diversified businesses also known as Cement Company of Northern Nigeria –CCNN located on 10 Kalambaina Road in Sokoto, is the subsidiary of BUA Group which scheduled to be completed in the third quarter of 2017, according to the statement posted on the company’ site. The project which was expected to be completed in the third quarter 2017 was reliably informed through telephone that it has just test run the line. The source further disclosed that the work have been reached the completion. The Germany representative said the work must be properly done to enable full production in Sokoto. When Germany man was asked about the time line, he said Germany believe in quality work not time line though we follow the schedule as per stated, we don’t hurry work, he added.The Founder and Executive Chairman of BUA and also Chairman of CCNN, Abdulsamad Rabiu, disclosed that he has invested US$300million in the new 1.5 million metric tonnes per annum cement expected, BUA newsletter source. Rabiu, the Chairman further revealed that this 300million dollars project which began in few years ago is the first expansion of the plant since 1986. BUA Group took over majority of shareholding in 2010, he added. Amehnews recalls that the Chairman of the Group sometimes ago stated that coal was discovered in commercial quantities by the company which company intends to use as fuel for a 40MW captive power plant being constructed as part of the project. The new cement factory can use both Coal and Low Pour Fuel Oil (LPFO), it was stated. According to Rabiu, BUA’s US$300million investment in the new plant is the single largest private sector led investment in the entire North West Nigeria. He also highlighted the plant’s export potential with it being 100kilometres to the border with Niger Republic and 200kilometres to the Benin Republic’s border too. This, the BUA Chairman, said, will help the country earn much needed foreign exchange and diversify the economy further.In the same vein: The  BUA Group also operates a 3.5Mt/yr cement plant at Okpella & Obu in Edo state respectively in the mid-west of Nigeria which is a multi-million dollars investment contract with SINOMA to expand capacity it OBU Cement Plant in Okpella, Edo State. This project is slated for completion by 2018, thereby double the cement production capacity of the existing plant from 3million metric tonnes per annum to 6million metric tonnes per annum, an increase of 3million metric tonnes per annum representing 50 percent and strengthen its market penetration. Also BUA plans additional expansion of production very close to the present production site. A reliable source  disclosed this during telephone interview that very closed by have be set aside for construction of new production line soon.  About BUA: BUA Group started business in 1988 as a Private Limited Liability Company specializing in the importation and marketing of iron & steel, agricultural and industrial chemicals. Since then it has rapidly developed into a fully-fledged, diversified business with a stake in a wide range of business sectors.  The Caption Photo: The Founder/Executive Chairman of BUA/CCNN, Abdulsamad Rabiu