 The Name Estate Surveyor and Valuer is more or less a matter of idiosyncrasy. The counterparts of the estate surveyors and valuers in other countries are known and referred to by other different names. In the United States of America, they are called “Appraisers”, in the United Kingdom, they are called “Chattered Surveyors” meanwhile in other nations, they are called “Valuers or Estate Valuers”. All the same, their work and activities are geared towards property management, valuation of assets, estate agency, public lands administration, land use planning and management, project management, property deal counseling, among others. An Estate Surveyor and Valuer is someone who by his training and experience an elected corporate member of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), registered and empowered by the Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria (ESVRBON) to practice estate surveying and valuation in Nigeria. The Board (ESVRBON) issues any registered Estate Surveyors and Valuer official stamp and seal which carry his registration number. The Valuer is expected to validate his ascent to all his official report of valuations with the instruments. Estate Surveyors and Valuers have been charged with the responsibility of playing a greater role in revitalizing the national economy by using their professional expertise in determining the value of a property and other relevant functions to boost the economy needs of the investor. The role of Estate Surveyors and Valuers in sustaining economic growth of any nation cannot be disputed, especially in enhancing internally generated revenue through the provision of valuation database for the assessment and collection of property taxes through property rating at the local government level and property registration administration by the state government. According to Victor Alonge, a fellow of the Nigerian Institution of Estate Surveyors and Valuers (NIESV), in his interview with Emmanuel Badejo, he urged policymakers to tap from the expertise of estate surveyors and valuers, saying they are key to national development. Estate Surveyors play vital roles in both private and public sectors. In sustaining economic growth and development in Nigeria, Estate Surveyors maintain both public and private assets and infrastructures. They formulate detailed planned prevention policy to the government for managing public infrastructures/assets. They also act as land economists for infrastructural development schemes. In formulating regional development master plan, they identify all various urban and rural issues in carrying out infrastructural development schemes in Nigeria. From time immemorial, there had been several land disputes between government and masses and masses against masses. In the approach to curb and minimize the time and effort taken to determine and give judgements on some of these land disputes, government has set up civil mediation centres’spearheaded by Estate Surveyors and Valuers, acting as an alternative to dispute resolutions, mandated to handle and cater for cases relating to various land and property disputes in a non – judicial manner. Estate Surveyors and Valuers in the approach of enhancing their manpower capacity and professionalism, they act as teachers and trainers in various institutions of higher learning where they continually perform the role of educating prospective fellow about the nitty-gritty of real estate management.
ESTATE SURVEYORS AND VALUERS AND THE NIGERIAN ECONOMY Estate Surveyors and Valuers and their roles in both economic and social development in Nigeria can never be overemphasized. Their roles centre mainly on land and all structures on the land. Both Rural and Urban dwellers need the services of an Estate Surveyor and Valuer. Their services range from management and development of estates, determination of values of all descriptions on properties, carrying out feasibility studies and the appraisals of investments’ proposal and schemes affecting land and buildings. Buying, selling and leasing of land and landed properties is one of the most difficult tasks Estate Surveyors embark upon. For clients not to be misguided or misled by owners, they need to consult Estate Surveyors and Valuers for his/her professional advice on any real estate matters. Estate Surveyors and Valuers also advise clients on sales/purchase value of land and landed properties bought or sold. They help clients investigate title documents to the land and landed properties to be purchased. They also act in the best interest of clients in land matters. Finally, they help clients advertise their land and landed properties to prospective buyers.  Finally, Estate Surveyors and Valuers also serve as employers of labour. They help Government in curbing the issue of unemployment in the country by training and employing within and outside their organization. They employ staffs working directly for them, performing professional and administrative duties. Also, they employ workers to work for them on the field, either on contract or permanent bases. Conclusively, some Estate Surveying and Valuing companies in Nigeria like Ayeye& Co Estate Surveyors and Valuers have overtime made a significant contribution to boosting the nation’s economy. Ayeye & Co Estate Surveyors and Valuers aims to be leading firm of Estate Surveyors and Valuers serving as a model in rendering quality, timely and efficient services to the satisfaction of clients and other stakeholders using modern technology, delivered by highly trained and well-motivated staffs to this end help boost Nigerian economy.  Source: Written By Ayeye & Co.