L-R: EDo/Delta Chairman, Alofoje Unuigbeje, Abuja Branch Chairman, Emaseaiu Odun, The MAN Prfesident, Dr Frank Udema Jacobs and The MAN DG, Segun Ajayi Kadir The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) commends the Federal Government for its efforts at improving the economic fortune of the nation adding that the Federal Government, by extension Nigerian Office of Trade Negotiations (NOTN) for the just concluded nationwide consultations and sensitization programme.  However, MAN said, we hasten to observed that the NOTN version of the outcomes of the stakeholders’ engagements and sensitization as reported in the news media does not adequately reflect the overall proceedings and factual expressions at those meetings. We are worried that this could be misleading and more importantly, may not put Nigeria in good stead and could inexorably put the nation in a disadvantaged position if or when the implementation of the AfCFTA commences.  MAN President Dr Frank Udema Jacobs while addressing press conference today in Lagos stated that we are now even more worried that, in spite of the widespread concerns that necessitated Mr. President’s reservation of his signature at the Summit in Kigali, the subsequent activities of the NOTN was not tailored towards addressing those concerns. Rather than squarely addressing those critical issues, all efforts were geared towards extolling the laudable objectives of the AfCFTA, its potential benefits and what Nigeria is expected to benefit from its implementation. This is rather simplistic and cannot be the way to go. Not for Nigeria that has a lot and the most to lose, should we sign-on to an Agreement that is still shrouded in uncertainty, not informed by ANY study and not based on any negotiated position at the domestic level.  Jacobs point out that in specific terms, we (MAN) have observed with great apprehension that the issues that the major stakeholders raised at the beginning, including those expressed by manufacturers, still remain unattended to. The MAN listed their points as follows: The agreement to the adoption of the 90:10% Market Access ratios to be achieved in 5 years lacked empirical basis and evidence of due consultation and accommodation of concerned and affected stakeholders and operators.  That Nigeria agreed to such a short period for the implementation of the Market Access without negotiating the Rules of Origin.  That right from the period preceding the Kigali Summit and up until now, the content of the Nigerian offer has remained unknown to manufacturers who are the number one stakeholders to be positively and or negatively impacted by the proposition. It is noteworthy to say here that  MAN had requested for this vital information severally, including when the Chief Negotiator led his team to the MAN House as part of the consultation/sensitization programme.  That key economic Ministry departments and established structures remained large sidelined during the process.  “We had expected that the NOTN would, during the consultative/sensitization programme and at the end of the exercise, develop a technical paper for Government (validated by stakeholders) on the following:  President reiterated that AfCFTA is a good project that will benefit Nigeria if properly negotiated; as it would expand Market Access for export of Nigerian products and improve the competitiveness of the manufacturing sector. However, he said the starting point of an effective AfCTFA negotiation is the recommended studies, robust consultations and proper representation of manufacturing and the private sectors at all National and Continental AfCFTA negotiation meetings. This we believe would equip members of the Nigerian negotiating team with requisite data for the negotiations ahead.