… DONATES GAS ACCESSORIES TO COMMEMORATE WORLD ENVIRONMENT  DAY L-R: Manager ,LPG Operations ,NIPCO Plc  ,Kamal Badmus presenting  cooking gas accessories  to teachers and pupils of Maidic Schools ,Alagbado ,as part of efforts to grow LPG utilization  on the occasion of  World Environment Day celebrations in Lagos . In demonstration of its commitment to promoting use of gas as domestic cooking fuel, NIPCO plc has stepped up its campaign to create awareness and sensitization of  the populace on the benefits  of  switch to gas as a panacea to reducing the environmental impact of other sources of fuel for household cooking . The company presented LPG gas accessories to the overall best school at a special event organized by the Federal Ministry of Environment [FME] to mark World Environment Day [WED] as part of its resolve to drive LPG use. The event held at the games village FME Lagos liaison office which had participants from schools and other stakeholders across the state in attendance featured three categories of competition tailored around reduction of pollution in our environment. The forum provided a veritable avenue for the company to educate and promote safe use of LPG as cooking fuel as well as supporting schools to imbibe in their parents the lofty benefits of switching to gas as a preferred fuel for households. Advertisement In a goodwill message to the event, Managing Director, NIPCO, Sanjay Teotia said supporting the yearly World Environment Day Celebration is key to the company’s efforts at promoting g safe and habitable environment across the state in particular and the country in general. The MD who was represented by Head LPG Operations, Engr Kamal Badmus said lots of initiatives are being put in place by the company to further encourage the populace to see gas as a safe and affordable cooking fuel. He noted that aside from the inherent benefits of switch to gas over other cooking fuels like kerosene, NIPCO has also  proactively prepared safety pamphlets  to address some of the safety issues being raised on LPG use According to him , the safety tips addressed some of the misconceptions about gas which had scared potential users of LPG  especially its handling cooking gas accessories like cylinders ,burners etc . He noted that some of the fears being expressed by the populace are frustrating efforts to encourage Nigerians to switch over from use of kerosene, firewood and charcoal to the use of LPG. The MD assured participants at the event that some of the negative notions about gas usage are addressed in the pamphlets as part of the company’s corporate social responsibility initiatives in pursuing a meaningful switch to gas as cooking fuel . Sanjay urged everyone to come together to explore sustainable alternatives to end all kinds of pollution citing use of gas as one instead of the old ways of relying heavily on firewood with  plastics as catalyst to faster burning . The Federal Controller, FME, Lagos, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Agbenla said the theme of this year WED “Beat Plastic Pollution “ was to draw the attention of stakeholders to the need to beat the unending pollution caused by inappropriate disposal of plastic materials . She sponsors including NIPCO for their support some of whom dates back to over a decade adding that the presentation of gas accessories to the best school in the completion as part of the WED events is noteworthy and a commendable act by the company.  Advertisement Maidic Schools, Alagbado in Alimosho was adjudged the overall best school in the competition and was presented full set of LPG accessories including 12.5kg cylinder .multiple gas burner and regulator by the company’s representative among other support initiatives for the successful hosting of the event . Responding, head of delegation of the school, Emma Dike said the cooking gadgets will be a boost to their home economics laboratory where  basic culinary in the school are practiced .