Lagos: “The 2018 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability week will amplify the Bank’s Employee Giving and Volunteering scheme as we all collaborate across our business communities to create sustainable impact, touch lives and make our societies a better place to live.” The Managing Director/CEO, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan stated when she flagged off the second edition of the bank’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) Week scheduled for June 19 – 23, 2018. The event has this theme: ‘Touching Lives; You First’ would offer FirstBank employees the opportunity to give their time and resources in the service of humanity.’ Amehnewws learned that the week-long event which is being commemorated across its business communities in Nigeria, United Kingdom, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, The Gambia, Guinea, Sierra-Leone and Senegal, is a reflection of the Bank’s brand promise to always put stakeholder needs first, while it reinforces the Bank’s role in driving sustainable development in the communities where it operates. According to the report, the CSR Week would witness the culmination and consolidation of the Bank’s interventions in social responsibility, promoting random acts of kindness across 800 communities to reignite acts of kindness in our society. The events are tailored towards re-orientating the society along the right values; encouraging the citizenry to intentionally create positive impact in their immediate environment. Major Highlights of the 2018 commemoration include: Promoting Acts of Random Kindness in over 800 Business Communities– This initiative launched in 2017 as Staff Promoting Acts of Random Kindness has been expanded to give opportunities to everyone who wants to participate.Consequently,  it  has been tagged ‘Start Promoting Acts of Random Kindness’ (SPARK)  and a Giving platform has been put in place to encourage all interested parties to donate to humanitarian causes. All stakeholders are encouraged to nominate people they believe are deserving of kindness. Nominations can be sent to spark@firstbanknigeria.com with supporting reasons in not more than 100 words; entries close on June 23, 2018.