Insurance operators in Nigeria has come up with strong strategy of rebranding the insurance industry in the country which aimed at reinvigorated the hope of stakeholders in the market for better days ahead. The N300 million project, according to Oye Hassan-Odukale, the Chairman of the sub-committee on Publicity and Communications of the Insurers Committee, saying the project has an initial three-year lifespan to change the perception of the Nigerian public about insurance and the insurance industry itself. Odukale pointed out that Nigeria cannot attract sustainable Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) without insurance protection for the investors. L-R: Chairman Sub-Committee on Publicity and Communication, Insurers Committee, Hassan Oye- Odukale; Deputy Director/Head, Corporate Affairs, NAICOM, Rasaaq Salami; Vice Chairman Sub Committee, Publicity, Ebelechukwu Nwachukwu; Managing Director, Custodian & Allied General Insurance Limited, Toye Odunsi and Director-General, Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) Mrs Yetunde Ilori. “We want insurance to move the economy forward. Investment cannot come into Nigeria without insurance protection for the investors. If we achieve one percent insurance penetration in Nigeria, it is huge given our population of 180 million. Indeed, claims payment is the best advert for insurance companies in the country.” The insurance rebranding project will focus on four key planks: Odukale, who is also the managing director/chief executive of Leadway Assurance Company Limited added: “The low insurance penetration rate in Nigeria is as a result o the wide financial protection gap; hence we must work hand-in-hand to ensure that risk protection and insurance education are readily accessible to the average man on the street. We need to look beyond making sales to reversing the negative perception many Nigerians have of the insurance industry.” The rebranding project will also showcase insurance firms and chief executive officers operating in the industry, their contacts and create an avenue for them to respond to questions from members of the public.  