Professor Kingsley C. Moghalu, As part of efforts to address the country’s economic development challenges, the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) has firmed up arrangement to host its 2018 Annual Lecture themed “Of Banks and Bankers: Finance and the Challenge of Economic Development in Nigeria”. The Public Lecture which was held June 28, 2018 at Bankers House Lagos to focusing on tropical issues in the economy. It is aimed at highlighting key issues and generating ideas that will assist policy makers and operators in the economy carry out their functions. The Lecture attracts chieftains of the banking and finance industry, top public officials, foreign diplomats, the academia and top executives of the organized private sector. The aim is to keep discerning members of the public abreast of current developments both within their immediate environment and globally.  The Annual Lecture was delivered by Professor Kingsley C. Moghalu, Professor of Practice in International Business and Public Policy at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University and the founder of Sogato Strategies LLC while Kyari A. Bukar, the current Chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group and former MD/CEO of the Central Securities Clearing System Limited (CSCS) Chair the occasion. Other panelists at the Lecture include Chinedu Ikwudinma, MD/CEO of NOVA Merchant Bank Limited; Kunle Oyinloye, MD/CEO of the Infrastructure Bank Plc; Mrs. Eileen Shaiyen, Founder/CEO of H. Pierson Associates Limited; Dr. Andrew Nevin, Advisory Partner/Chief Economist of PwC Nigeria; Johnson Chukwu, MD/CE of Cowry Assets Management Limited, and Ingo Herbert, Consul General of the Federal Republic of Germany. The programme highlight the regulatory and institutional measures taken by major stakeholders in Nigeria’s financial services sector towards minimizing the challenges in the country’s financial economy, the effectiveness of such measures and the steps required to close existing gaps between Nigerian banks and bankers. The other participants at the lecture are Managing Directors/Chief Executives of banks and other financial institutions top level and senior executives of banks and other financial institutions, their subsidiaries, directors of regulatory institutions, compliance officers of banks, private sector operators, and consumers of financial services, civil society and representatives of the diplomatic community as well as CIBN Members. The Annual Lecture which has become the most important annual forum of the Institute by brings together policy makers, regulators and operators in the financial services industry to share experiences and exchange ideas on contemporary issues of common interest and has had distinguished and eminent professionals as guest lecturers in the past. In his opening remarks by the chairman of the occasion, Kyari A. Bukar, the current Chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group and former MD/CEO of the Central Securities Clearing System Limited (CSCS) said truly Nigeria has rank over and above others in the poverty rate that anything someone have to do within his or her power to assist the country source person should not hesitate to start without due delay. Professor Kingsley C. Moghalu said reminding all of us that capitalism is a philosophy. The necessary qualification is that there must be an appropriate balance between the roles of the state and the market place. It is therefore essential to develop a philosophical underpinning to our capital economy that goes well beyond a transactional approach that is what see in the management of the Nigerian economy. Moghalu pointed out the three requirements for the success of capitalist economies are: 1 Property Rights 2 Innovation, and 3 Capitals Understanding the interplay of these three factors is essential for structural economic transformational, he noted adding that the national economic policy must therefore address the relationship instead of a narrow focus on finance. “We have therefore remained a country in which poverty is on rise while a small class plays with the much finance available in the economy.” Prof pointed out that first there is the reality that only 41.6 percent of Nigerians have access to financial services. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) target of 80percent financial inclusion by 2020 seems like a long way. There is also the issue of geography. Of the credit that is available. 77% of it comes to Lagos, a state with less than 10% of Nigeria’s population. No economy can hope to have sustained, inclusive growth under these circumstances.