The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) is seeking the intervention of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo over non-compliance by some government agencies with the Executive Order on the Ease of Doing Business at Ports. The Managing Director of NPA, Hadiza Usman, disclosed this last Friday at the head office of the NPA during a meeting with the leadership of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Agents (ANLCA). The order streamlined the activities of all agencies in the nation’s ports to achieve a 24-hour cargo clearance target. The NPA managing director was told by a delegation of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) that some government agencies were flouting the presidential directive. After listening to the ANLCA complaints she said, in response, the MD of NPA informed the delegation that the Nigerian Ports Authourity had written to the Nigeria Customs Service on complaints over ease of doing business and the issue of multiple checks on containers . She however told ANLCA that the Comptroller General of Customs has remained adamant.  She said the directive of the Vice President on ease of doing business is very clear. “We will write a letter to all stakeholders on the directive of the Vice President on the agencies that are to be in the port”  “I have written to the CG of Customs, I have written to the office of the Vice President, but they (Customs) said they  can not comply, that they will have a single interface, the matter was escalated to a meeting of ease of doing business, yet they said they  can not comply, they listed a list of things citing the Act”.  She also assured that the issues raised about the Marine Police will be discussed when she meets with the Inspector General of the Police, she assured that the meeting will hold soon. The National Vice President of ANCLA, Kayode Farinto urged the managing director to intervene to ensure that officials of the Nigerian Agricultural Quarantine are prevented from entering the ports. Farinto also made an appeal that NPA should ensure that the newly- constructed temporary Truck Park at Tin Can Island Port (TCIP) is put to immediate use.