The Nigeria Customs Service (NSC) has impounded about 3,000 bags of rice worth over N45 million. Two suspects, it was gathered, are been held in connection with the seizure. The 3,000 bags of rice were seized in Ogun State by Comptroller-General of Customs Col. Hameed Ali’s  Strike Force, which was set up to combat smuggling. The force is posted to the Customs four zonal offices in Lagos, Kaduna, Bauchi and Port Harcourt. Sources close to the Service told The Nation that the smuggled rice were concealed inside containers and trucks belonging to some registered companies. The interception is coming barely a week after the Minister of Agriculture, Audu Ogbeh, said the Federal Government would close some of the land borders due to massive smuggling of rice. A source said: “Customs Zonal Commander of the Strike Force (Zone A),   AC Salisu Assababullah , led the team that made the seizure at Ijebu Ode,  Ogun State. “The  strike force was able to make the seizure through intelligence gathering and immediate response to the information gathered on the nefarious activities of the smugglers around the area. ”The CGC task force intercepted 3000 bags of 50kg rice smuggled into the country. They were intercepted along Ijebu Ode expressway with two suspects in custody.” ”We were able to get intelligence report that container laden trucks were taken to the border area, load it with smuggled rice and put seal as if it were a container released from seaports.” On June 7, 2016, the Federal Executive Council presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari approved N1,5 billion for the procurement of 68 brand new Ford Pick-Ups for the Customs. The Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, who briefed State House Correspondents alongside the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning and the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said the operational vehicles available for the service were grossly inadequate for effective anti-smuggling. She added that the need to effectively patrol the borders, enhance Customs’ bid to suppress smuggling and increase revenue collection gave rise to the request to purchase 68 operational vehicles. Adeosun explained that having identified the need, the Service made provision for the purchase of 68 operational vehicles, Hilux, in its 2017 capital appropriation. The strike force got nine vehicles from the 68 vehicles approved by FEC for anti-smuggling and in two weeks, the strike force was able to intercept 3,000 smuggled rice. A senior Customs officer advised smugglers to engage in legitimate business.  Part of the force’s mandate, according to Customs National Public Relations Officer, Mr Joseph Attah, is to check officers’ activities. He said the force was set up to fight smuggling. “The team is empowered to enter any command system on suspicion of fraudulent activities taking place or about to take place with a view to blocking all revenue leakages from the system. “The team is allowed to partake in the examination of any suspected container generated by the ICT,” he explained.