 Following a spark of outrage and condemnation expressed by Nigerians over the invitation of President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki to appear before the police, the Nigeria Police Force, on Monday rescinded on its earlier invitation. The decision of the police to recant on its earlier position to invite the Senate President in connection with the recent Offa robbery was conveyed in a tweet on Monday by @bukolasaraki handle on twitter. Saraki wrote: “Following my earlier tweet, I have received the letter from @PoliceNG. They are no longer asking me to appear at any station, but to respond in writing to the allegations within 48 hours – which I plan to do.” Recall that the police had asked Senate President, Saraki to come over and clear his name over alleged confession of Offa robbery suspects, where they were alleged to have implicated him as their backer. The gruesome robbery incident claimed 33 lives, including nine police personnel, while the deadly gang laid siege to the town, robbed six banks and ransacked the Divisional Police Headquarters. According to the police, Senator Saraki was expected to report to the Force Intelligence Response Team office at Guzape, Abuja. But Saraki on Monday morning, in response to his invitation, requested his ADC, Usman Dunguza, to obtain a formal invitation from the police to enable him comply fully with investigations. The Police in a statement on Sunday, said the invitation had to do with the alleged confession of five of the gang members. Force Public Relations Officer, Mr. Jimoh Moshood, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, while disclosing that 22 suspects were now in police custody, further alleged that besides the suspects’ confessions, one of the vehicles recovered from the robbers bore a ‘SARAKI’sticker. “The Five (5) gang leaders namely; Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibukunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Salawudeen Azeez, Niyi Ogundiran and some of the other Seventeen (17) suspects arrested for direct involvement and active participation in the Offa Bank Robbery and the gruesome killing of thirty three (33) innocent persons, which include some pregnant women and nine (9) Police personnel, admitted, confessed and volunteered statements that they were political thugs of the Senate President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Senator Bukola Saraki and the Executive Governor of Kwara State, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed.” “The five (5) gang leaders further confessed during investigation that they are political thugs under the name; Youth Liberation Movement a.k.a “Good Boys”, admitted and confessed to have been sponsored with firearms, money and operational vehicles by the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki and the Governor of Kwara State, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed,” the statement read.