F-R: Babatunde Faleke, Deputy Director, International Export Office of NEPC, Nicholas Schlaepfer, Senior Advisor, Women and Trade Programme, and Ms Omoyemi Akerele, Founder and Executive Director of Styles House Files The International Trade Centre (ITC) today launched the Nigeria Chapter of She Trades in the Commonwealth to deliver greater economic returns for Nigerian women entrepreneurs in Lagos. According to the organizer of the event, a dedicated project of ITC’s global She Trades Initiative, the She Trades in the commonwealth Nigeria project aims to drive increased trade, productivity and competitiveness for women entrepreneurs and women-owned companies to ensure that they play an active role in international trade. Through initiative training and mentoring activities, the goal is to strengthen the capacities of 3000 women-owned businesses with a view to generate sales worth $38million by 2020. “The She Trades Initiatives aims to connect one million women to market by 2020 and rallies stakeholders around the world to work together on seven actions to address trade barriers and create greater opportunities for women entrepreneurs.” Amehnews recalled that the programme was officially launched in April this year and funded by United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID), She Trades in the Commonwealth was endorsed by UK Prime Minister Theresa May during the opening of the Commonwealth Business Forum (CBF) in London. She Trades in the Commonwealth, Nigeria will address challenges faced by women entrepreneurs, including access to and control over land, cumbersome business and financial institutional processes amongst other entrepreneurial challenges. Nicholas schlaepfer, senior programme officer at ITC’s Women and Trade Programme said She Trades in the Commonwealth will ensure that women entrepreneurs in Nigeria receive support tailored to their specific needs allowing them to propel their existing market representation and secure greater access to global trade. Sclaepfer also stated that the She Trades in the Commonwealth project will provide governments with better tools and information to implement gender-responsive policies and share best practices. Over a two- year period, ITC will initially work to increase the competitiveness of women entrepreneurs in the Agriculture, IT & BPO, Textiles, Apparel, Tourism and Services Sectors in four commonwealth focus countries: Bangladesh, Ghana, Kenya and Nigeria.He reiterated that the DFID will be implemented by the ITC over two years from April 2018 – March 2020. Part of ITC’s SheTrades initiative, the project aims to increase economic growth and job creation in Commonwealth countries by enabling the increased participation of women-owned businesses in international trade. Today event aims as to give the project stakeholders and participants an overview of the project and its goals and activities to be undertaken as well as hearing from participants about the key issues and challenges they face.