Executive Management and staff of First Bank of Nigeria Limited yesterday delivered career counseling sessions to over 3000 secondary school students across the regions to inculcate financial literacy and inclusion in young students.  The counseling, according to a statement from the lender, was part of activities marking the Bank’s second edition of its Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) Week scheduled for June 19 – 23, 2018.  The event themed ‘Touching Lives; You First’, offers FirstBank employees the opportunity to give their time and resources in the service of humanity.  Speaking at Yaba College of Technology Secondary School, Lagos, the MD/CEO, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, said the week-long event, which is being commemorated across its business communities in Nigeria, United Kingdom, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, The Gambia, Guinea, Sierra-Leone and Senegal is a reflection of the Bank’s brand promise to always put stakeholder needs first, while it reinforces the Bank’s role in driving sustainable development in the communities where it operates.  Adeduntan stated that The 2018 Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability week will amplify the Bank’s Employee Giving and Volunteering scheme as we all collaborate across our business communities to create sustainable impact, touch lives and make our societies a better place to live.  Counseling the students, he said: “Professional life is rewarding but it always comes with continuous improvement and investment.”  MD/CEO stressed the importance of aligning their interest and passion with their capabilities and also the importance of building their personal brands.  “Even though you think you are young but we believe this is the period you should begin to build your personal brand,” he said.  “You need to be creative, innovative and more especially collaborative as collaboration is very important if you want to grow in career. Whatever you are able to collaborate and communicate is very important,” Adeduntan further advised.  He noted that as part of the week’s activities, FirstBank will also commemorate the International Widows Day (IWD) on June 23, 2018 and is partnering with the International Women’s Society (IWS) to empower women, especially widows that will be present at an event organised to commemorate the IWD. “The Bank is partnering with VisionSpring to provide vision screening and affordable eye glasses for consumers earning less than $4 per day. This initiative is structured around three social impact themes: See to Earn, See to Learn, and See to be Safe to impact the lifestyles of their communities,” he said.  The Caption photo: The MD/CEO, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan,