… As STOAN, MWUN Others Commend Agency  L-R: President, National Association of Stevedoring Companies (NASC), Mr. Bolaji Sunmola, Executive Director, Maritime Labour & Cabotage, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Mr. Gambo Ahmed and Director, Maritime Labour Services, NIMASA Mr. Ibrahim Jibril during the National Joint Industrial Council (NJIC) Meeting in Lagos. The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has restated its commitment to the welfare of dock workers in the maritime industry as the Agency organised a meeting of the employers and labour unions in the maritime sector under the aegis of the National Joint Industrial Council (NJIC) in Lagos. The Chairman of the NJIC who is also the Executive Director, Maritime Labour and Cabotage Services, NIMASA Mr. Gambo Ahmed noted that the initiative was with a view to use the tool of constant engagement to ensure that the dock workers’ get better living conditions in line with International Labour laws. Mr. Gambo urged the operators to bear in mind that the welfare of the dock workers will impact a lot on the ports industry and also in turn the entire economy, hence the need to ensure that they are properly catered for. “When the welfare of the dockworkers’ are put into proper perspective, we have a healthy maritime sector, thereby leading to the actualization of a robust economy”, the Chairman stated. Also speaking was the Director, Maritime Labour Services, NIMASA, Mr. Ibrahim Jibril who also corroborated the stance of the Chairman of the NJIC, and said that the new agreement will demonstrate the Agency’s commitment, which is in line with the theme of the 107th International Conference held in Geneva viz; “A future with Decent Work and also building a future for the Dock Labour Industry”. He also assured them that the Agency has also put in place all necessary machineries towards ensuring a successful exercise in line with the provisions of the existing agreement and the demand for its review. The Chairman, Ports Consultative Council (PCC), Otunba Kunle Folarin who represented the Seaports Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) commended NIMASA for its role in maintaining the already existing peace in the ports industry and expressed optimism that the negotiation will yield positive results as all parties involved will work as a team and ensure that no dock worker is short-changed. Other stakeholders at the meeting were the President General of the Maritime Workers’ Union of Nigeria (MWUN), Comrade Adewale Adeyanju and the President of the National Association of Stevedoring Companies (NASC), Mr. Bolaji Sunmola who unanimously agreed that they will all work harmoniously to sustain the peace in the industry. They also used the opportunity to assure NIMASA of their continuous support. The NJIC is the body responsible for negotiating and reviewing of minimum standards for dock labour, which successfully reviewed the last Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) that lapsed on 31st May, 2018. The CBA is subject to review every two years.  The regulation of dock labour minimum standards is the statutory responsibility of the Agency as enshrined in the Act, Section 27 (1) sub-sect (b) of the NIMASA Act.