…….FAB becomes first West African host on the big stage at Cannes Lions Media and Lifestyle entrepreneur, Familusi Akin Babajide popularly known as Mr. FAB has been appointed Festival MC at the 65th Edition of Cannes Lions Festival of Creativity holding this June in the French Riviera. In June of 2016, FAB broke the record at Cannes Lions Festival by becoming the first West African Moderator on the big stage alongside media veterans like Stephen Sackur of the BBC; Anderson Cooper of CNN and Ryan Seacrest of E! whilst sharing the same stage as Googles CEO, Eric Schmidt, Leslie Moonves of CBS, Mark Thompson – CEO of New York Times Magazine; Anna Wintour of Vogue Magazine plus a host of world-renowned celebrities including Will Smith, Usher, Channing Tatum and Gwyneth Paltrow amongst others. He breaks yet another record this year by being the first West-African appointed as Festival MC in the history of the festival. FAB runs the FAB Group, comprising Media, Fashion and Hospitality interests and has often been described as a premium host having hosted FAB Radio, a syndicated lifestyle radio show for over 5 years and for 3 years has hosted Under 40 CEOs, a television series which has featured young African business leaders from across the continent. He has also hosted numerous high-profile events across the country. Cannes Lions is the world’s biggest festival, promoting creativity by awarding individuals/corporations who have demonstrated excellence in the areas of creative and marketing communications, entertainment, design and tech Industries. This year’s Cannes Lions programme features more brands than ever, hot topic debates, power hours, gameshows, interactive sessions, creative legends on stage, and a variety of speakers which include revered personalities and celebrities such as Anthony Reeves, Angela Ahrendts, David Oyelowo, Edward Enniful, Conan Obrien and Tyler Perry to name a few. The 65th edition of the Cannes Lions Festival will hold between the 18th and 22rd of June 2018. 