Students of Aduvie International School, Jahi, Abuja have emerged champions in various National categories at 10th edition of the Annual Microsoft Office Specialist Competition, Computer Fundamentals and Adobe Certification which was concluded recently. More than 500 students from 42 schools in the 36 states of Nigeria competed in the Competition. It was a record breaking achievement for Aduvie as out of the seven students that will be representing Nigeria at the World championship in Orlando Florida, four (4) of Aduvie students will be representing Team Nigeria in the 2018 edition of the competition. Aduvie International School is also the Winner of both the Best School Category and the Best ICT Teacher Category in this year’s competition. Consequently, one of its ICT teacher’s Mr. Timothy Osaigbovo will accompany the team to the world championship. It is also worth mentioning that, in the past four years, at least one student from Aduvie international school has represented Team Nigeria at the World Championship. In adobe certified Associate 2018, Nemieboka Alfred emerged winner and won an all-expenses paid trip to the MOS World Championship in Orlando Florida as well as a cash prize of N50,000, while Ebelo Tare was 1st runner up with a cash prize of N30,000 and Rufai Hanifa 2nd runner up and she received N20,000. Furthermore, in the 2018 Computing Fundamentals GS4 National category Chidiebere Jefery came tops with a laptop computer as prize while Lott Tomvie was first runner up with a laptop computer. In the MOS National Competiton Powerpoint 2013 Usman Abdullah came tops and won an all-expenses paid trip to the MOS World Championship in Orlando Florida as well as a cash prize of N50,000, while Cue Eze Zeluilo was 1st runner up with a prize of N30,000 and Azaiki Sinikem with a cash prize of N20,000. In Power Point 2013, Cue Eze Zaluchukwuoku was tops and won an all-expenses paid trip to the MOS World Championship in Orlando Florida as well as a cash prize of N50,000. Also in Word 2013, Samantha Isichei emerged winner and won, while Cue Eze Zaluchukwuoku was 1st runner up and also won an all-expenses paid trip to the MOS World Championship in Orlando Florida as well as a cash prize of N50,000 Speaking on the success recorded, Osaigbovo said training and getting his students certified in MOS has been an inspiring and profitable experience for him and the students. He said “I am proud to equip them with the necessary skills that they can use to be successful in the future. My students were part of the Team Nigeria to the 2015 and 2016 Microsoft Office World Championship held in Dallas, Texas and Orlando, Florida. I was also privileged to serve as a chaperone at both events. “70% of the students at Aduvie International School have at least one or more MOS certification. Yearly, MOS certification is part of my professional development training for teachers. I am proud to say 50% of our teachers have one or more MOS certifications. I would highly recommend MOS certifications because they are the way to go for anyone that wants to prove their knowledge to employers and increase office productivity” he added.