The Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) made good its existing partnership and collaboration with the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) by releasing an impounded 40-feet container of suspected substandard Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders to the latter for further necessary action in a brief ceremony witnessed by members of the press at the Federal Operations Unit (FOU) Zone A office of the NCS in Ikeja, Lagos. The Comptroller FOU Zone A Unit, Uba Mohammed, in his remarks during the handing over ceremony said that it was not the first time NCS was releasing such suspicious containers to SON that fall under its purview for further investigations. This according to the Comptroller is in line with government’s policy of inter-agency collaboration in the ease of doing business and protecting the interest of Nigerian consumers.  Mohammed disclosed that the suspicious container violated customs procedure through false declaration and trying to shortchange the Federal Government, following which SON indicated interest in the contents. Receiving the container on behalf of the Director General SON, Osita Anthony Aboloma, Chief State Prosecutor, Babatunde Alajogun thanked the NCS for its collaborative effort in releasing the suspicious container of LPG cylinders to SON, stating that the Agency’s interest was informed by the goods classified as life danger products. The 40 feet container of substandard LPG cylinders according to the Chief Prosecutor will be subjected to tests and analysis before a conclusion is arrived at as to the quality of the contents and the next line of action. Also the Director inspectorate and Compliance, Engr.  Bede Obayi who will be the custodian of the container at the Amuwo-Odofin, Festac ware house facility of SON revealed that the importer of the seized container as CramoHill Nigeria Limited, stressing that initial surveillance and investigation has disclosed that the address provided on the import documents were fictitious and non- existent. Engr. Obayi therefore admonished importers to adhere strictly to laid down procedures for the importation of LPG cylinders as according to him “substandard LPG cylinders are time bombs that can kill innocent Nigerians if not stopped from coming into the country and assured that SON will stop at nothing to put an end to the importation of substandard LPG cylinders and other life endangering products”. He also cautioned the Nigerian public not to patronize “fairly used” LPG cylinders as they are risky and could cause untold harm and possible death as they are mostly expired and not fit for re-use. He advised Consumers to look closely at the valve and collar around the head of the cylinder for carriage protection of the valve from breakage if it the cylinder accidentally falls. Other attributes the Director ICD advised Nigerians to watch out for include the date of manufacture, capacity of the cylinder and most importantly the SON logo and unique serial/identification number displayed on the cylinder to ensure traceability in the case of any eventuality .