 President Buhari’s administration will continue to secure Nigeria, upgrade infrastructure and ensure its wealth is not hijacked by a greedy few. The Acting President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo stated this on Tuesday during a one-day working visit to Zamfara State. Professor Osinbajo, who was received by Governor Yari Abdulaziz, also inaugurated projects executed by the state government during the visit. Projects inaugurated
Some of the projects included; the upgraded 150-bed General Hospital in Bakura Local Government Area, the Water Works project at Gamji village and a 12.8 kilometer road project in the same community and a Modern Primary School in Talata Mafara. The Acting President said: “the Buhari Administration is working for the benefit of everyone, with special emphasis on the least-privileged.” Fight against criminality
On the crisis caused by the invasion of communities especially in the state by armed bandits, Professor Osinbajo promised that “the Nigerian Government will sustain the tempo of its fight against all forms of criminality and not just in Zamfara State but all over the country.” “I would like to reiterate the total determination of the Nigerian government to support and work with Zamfara State to permanently defeat these challenges, and to ensure that it remains a promising land of agriculture, commerce, tourism and hospitality. “This fight will of course not be won until every hotspot and flashpoint in Nigeria is freed and secured. Every Nigerian life matters and we will not relent in our efforts to completely subdue the perpetrators of bloodshed and violence,’’ the Acting President stated. He said;“Let me reassure you all that we will keep up the tempo, and will continue to provide all the needed support to our law enforcement agents as they work harder to restore peace and security.” Professor Osinbajo commended the Zamfara State government for its resilience and determination in providing for the people through important projects and programmes despite the security challenge. New future
On the challenge posed by the activities of illegal miners, he said; “we are committed to charting a new future free of poisoning and exploitation for Zamfara and all other affected parts of the country.” “We owe it to our children and future generations, to bequeath to them an environment that will support, not undermine their dreams and aspirations,” the Acting President stressed. Committed to unity
Professor Osinbajo called on all Nigerians to remain committed to the unity of this country. “Our dream of building a prosperous Nigeria, that will take its rightful place in the midst of the global community of states, cannot be realised in a state of acrimony, primordial divisions and prejudiced thinking,” he said. The Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali, All Progressives Congress, APC’s Deputy National Chairman North, Lawal Shuaibu and other top government officials, accompanied the Acting President to Zamfara State.