  ……. expected to register with their respective Trade Group Associations on or before December 31, 2018 LEFT to RIGHT: Ag. Executive Commissioner Operations, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mr. Isyaku Tilde, Ag. Director General SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, Ag. Executive Commissioner Corporate Services SEC, Mr. Henry Rowlands and Ag. Executive Commissioner Legal and Enforcement SEC, Mr. Reginald Karawusa during the Second Capital Market Committee (CMC) in 2018 held in Lagos, Thursday. The Nigerian Capital Market Committee (CMC) held its second quarterly meeting for the year 2018 on Thursday, August 9, 2018. The meeting is a periodic gathering of stakeholders in the Nigerian capital market to discuss capital market related matters. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Acting Director General, Ms. Mary Uduk, said the Commission would constitute a Market-wide Financial Technology (FINTECH) Committee to develop a FINTECH framework for the Nigerian Capital Market  In a statement released by Efe Ebelo, the media head of the Commission on the second capital market committee meeting held in Lagos, she said that the event was well attended by stakeholders in the market, including the Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Capital market and Institutions, featured presentations by various Market Technical Committees, Self-Regulatory Organizations (SROs) and other Stakeholders.  The DG SEC said “as you are aware, the major essence of this quarterly meeting is to identify challenges affecting operations/activities in the Nigerian capital market and formulate relevant solutions. This edition of the CMC meeting was no different as participants identified various issues that required extensive reviews and attention, added she. The following resolutions were reached at the meeting:  She pointed out that the Nigerian capital market within the quarter under review witnessed some achievements in various segments of its operations. These achievements validate the continuous efforts of all market participants and are as follows: