 Nigerian government said it was determined to re-position the nation’s economy through the Presidential Executive Order No.5. The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu made the assertion in Abuja in an address at the “North Central Dialogue on the Presidential Executive Order No.5.” He said the Federal Republic of Nigeria’s official gazette Presidential Executive Order No.5 is for Planning and Execution of Projects, Promotion of Nigeria Content in contracts, Science, Engineering and Technology. Global competitiveness
Onu said that the implementation of Executive Order 5 towards technology-driven economy would lead to global competitiveness. According to him, the order 5 is one of the series of such economy-dedicated orders of the present administration. “The Executive Order No. 5 is the instrument which President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration has deployed to redirect the economy from being resource-based to a new sustainable and inclusive path, as well as being a knowledge and innovation-driven economy. “It is expected that in the next 10-20 years, Nigerian companies will be competing with the very best in other parts of the world for projects and contracts, in international tenders. “The government will, henceforth, place superior emphasis on the use of indigenous professionals and firms, in the design and execution of projects involving national security,” he said. According to him, foreign experts will only be engaged on a condition that such expertise is not available in Nigeria. Onu noted that if the foreign experts were engaged, Nigerian professionals would be attached to understudy them. “The Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, under the Economy Recovery Growth Plan (2017-2020), will promote the “Made in Nigeria” goods. “The Ministry will harness Science, Technology and Innovation (STI) to drive national competitiveness, productivity and economic activities in all sectors,” the minister said. Nigeria to be self-reliant
The Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Mr Bitrus Nabasu said on the occasion that government would establish centres for acquisition of technology in the six geopolitical zones of the country. He said that the centre would also promote technology utilisation, reduce poverty and make Nigeria to be self-reliant in producing and utilising goods produced locally. Nabasu said that the executive order would increase the quantum of value created in Nigerian economy. “The government recognises entrenching STI in everyday life as key to achieve nation’s development goals across all sectors of the economy particularly in STI Strategy 2024 and 2063, SDG 2030 and Vision 20: 2020,” he said. The permanent secretary said that the punishment for violation of the order should be as stipulated by the Public Service Rules and relevant laws governing Public Procurement and Professional Practice in Nigeria.