 The Kwara State Government says it has released the sum of N125million as June 2018 subvention to all the state-owned tertiary institutions. The State Commissioner for Tertiary Education, Mr Abdullahi Alkinla who disclosed this to newsmen in Ilorin on Monday, said that the State Governor, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed had approved the release of the funds since last week Wednesday. According to him, immediately the approval was given, the State Ministry of Finance swung into action to ensure that the institutions get the money before Friday last week. He, however, explained that the banks could not process the payment of the money until Monday morning, adding that the funds had dropped into the accounts of the institutions. Mr Alkinla further said that the Provost of the College of Education, Ilorin, Dr. Yusuf Abdulraheem had early this morning confirmed to him the receipt of the institution’s share of the money. He therefore stressed that the reported protest by students of College of Education, Ilorin was unnecessary as government had made good its pledge to make the money available. The Commissioner said that the State government used to disburse subvention to the institutions on a quarterly basis but had to change it to monthly in order to assist them meet their monthly salary obligation. He explained that with the release of subvention for the payment of June salary, the institutions now have only one month outstanding salary to clear, which is for July. Mr Alkinla expressed optimism that the July subvention to the institutions would be released soon. Students of the Kwara State College of Education, Ilorin had earlier on Monday morning took   to the street to protest non payment of their lecturers six months salary. The students started the protest from their school premises to Ibrahim Taiwo road, Unity area and major streets within the state capital. The students who are supposed to start their semester exams on Monday morning were left stranded  as lecturers from the institution commenced industrial action over non payment of their salaries by the Kwara State Government. The students embarked on peaceful protest under the security watch of the Department of State Security chanting different Aluta songs and carrying placards with various inscriptions.