The Mobile Telecommunications Network (MTN) Group Limited, formerly M-Cell, is a South Africa-based multinational mobile telecommunications company, operating in many African. MTN Nigeria Communications Limited is part of the MTN Group, Africas leading cellular telecommunications company which on May 16, 2001, became the first GSM network in Nigeria. MTN Nigeria Communications Limited, 17 years in operations with good return on investment yearly has being in the news for sometimes now for listing their shares through the SEC on the trading floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) but they never seem to actualized the process yet. Acting Director-General of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mary Uduk urged MTN Group on official filing of the Initial Public Offering (IPO) prospectus to the commission. Uduk, while reacting further over recent media reports that MTN Nigeria is good to go with the Nigeria Listing, stated that neither MTN Nigeria Communications Limited, nor any of its advisers/representatives yet to filed any application on the IPO with the commission. Briefing journalists the outcomes of Commission’s second post Capital Market Committee (CMC) in Lagos on Thursday, Uduk, while reacting to question on MTN listing, made it cleared that the Commission is willing to provide the necessary regulatory support, if MTN finally files a formal and complete application with the commission. MTN Nigeria Communications Limited will be treated with the usual diligence and urgency that is applicable to all such filings if the documentations are properly filed without omission of any, added she. The DG SEC reiterated that the press holds me responsible from the day one of MTN filing completes documents for listing without omission of any adding that they all agreed to works on any listing documents at same time from different locations. Capital market stakeholders have described the moves by the telecoms giant, MTN to raise about N153bn ($500m) from the sale of shares in its Nigerian business as a ‘positive development’, saying it would deepen the market and encourage the active participation of individual consumers in the company’s wealth creation process. But with the current political risks, which have continued to depress transactions on the equity sector of the NSE, operators had doubted the possibility of MTN IPO and subsequent listing on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) this year. They said that the IPO might not be visible this 2018 by the way and manner MTN was going handling the issue. Managing Director, APT Securities and Funds Ltd., Malam Garba Kurfi said that MTN was dragging the issue because of the way and manner things were handled in the country. In the same vein: MTN said its MTN Nigeria unit expected to list on the Nigerian Stock Exchange before the end of 2018. According to pre-IPO documents seen by Reuters in February this year, the telecoms firm planned to raise at least $400 million to cut debt for its Nigeria unit, then valued at $5.23 billion. But here come MTN’s direct regulator, the Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Umar Garba Danbatta, with statement saying that MTN must list on Nigeria’s stock exchange on or before May 2019 as contained in the agreement over the 2015 fine settlement between the regulator and the telecom company. EVC speaking during an interactive session with newsmen in his office in Abuja recently