Mrs Alero Ayida-Otobo, Board member Teach For Nigeria, Mrs Joke Silva, Ambassador Teach For Nigeria, Folawe Omikunle, CEO Teach For Nigeria and Mr Gbenga Oyebode, Chairman Teach For Nigeria during the Teach For Nigeria 2018 Summer Training Institute in Lagos, Monday 20 August, 2018. Trains One hundred and Seventy-Three prospective fellows to help provide disadvantaged children with the right education for better life outcomes  Lagos, Nigeria, Thursday 23 August, 2018 – Teach For Nigeria, a Non-profit organization focused on improving the quality of education for Nigeria’s most marginalized children has concluded its 2018 Summer Training Institute and inducted the second cohort of change makers into its fellowship programme after a 4-week intensive training program held at the Greensprings School, Lekki, Lagos.  The Teach For Nigeria Fellowship program is a 2 year full-time paid commitment that is designed to build a movement of leaders who will work towards eliminating educational inequity by teaching in underserved schools in low-income communities across Nigeria. The Summer Training Institute focused on deepening prospective Fellows’ understanding of the many issues facing the educational system in Nigeria, while exposing them to a wide breadth of subjects and pedagogy knowledge with the aim of preparing them for the challenge of leading their students towards achieving ambitious academic and non-academic goals. Prospective Fellows also had ample opportunity to put theory into practice at Summer School where each Fellow independently planned and taught one 40-minute lesson per day for two weeks under expert supervision  Upon induction, fellows were posted to carefully selected placement schools in Lagos, Ogun and Kaduna State.  In his opening remarks, Gbenga Oyebode, Chairman Teach For Nigeria expressed optimism that “If in 20 years, a critical mass of Teach For Nigeria Alumni were holding key positions in both the Public and Private sectors of our National life, our education system and in deed our nation, would be much better than what it is today.” He further advised the incoming Fellows to uphold their commitment to the Fellowship while assuring that the Board remains committed to the sustainability of the Teach For Nigeria program.  Folawe Omikunle, CEO, Teach For Nigeria, commented: “We believe every child has the right to an excellent education and an opportunity to determine their own pathways and meaningfully engage with their communities. Therefore, we support our Fellows to help them transform the life trajectory of the pupils we serve through a rigorous, ongoing training program starting with the Summer Training Institute.”  Esohe Eigbike, DFID Education Adviser & Teach First UK Alumni, said: “To the 2018 Fellows, You are the future of this great nation and the training you have received will serve you well during and after this Fellowship. I encourage you to be steadfast and do your best to be positive role models to each and every pupil under your influence.”  Sharon Takim, who spoke on behalf of the 2018 TFN Fellows said: “We are not unaware of the challenges we will face, but we will have to believe in our kids when no one else does and hope that the laughter, joy and fulfilment of seeing a life transformed before our very eyes is enough to grease the wheels of this great cause.”  The Teach For Nigeria Training and Leadership Development team supported prospective Fellows through Summer Institute, monitoring their development to ensure they were making progress in order to be ready for the start of school in September.  The 2018 TFN Training Institute was sponsored by Greensprings School, Sterling Bank and FBN Quest Merchant Bank.  About Teach for Nigeria Teach For Nigeria is a Non-profit organization focused on enlisting Nigeria’s most promising future leaders in the effort to expand educational and life opportunities for all children in Nigeria. The initiative is part of the global Teach For All network of over 45 independent partners, working to increase and accelerate the impact of social enterprises that are cultivating the leadership necessary to ensure that “…One day, all children will have the opportunity to attain an excellent education.” For more information, please visit: www.teachfornigeria.org