The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria has lamented that locally produced goods are still finding it difficult competing in the global market. The President, MAN, Dr Frank Jacobs, declared this on Saturday at the 34th Annual General Meeting and Public Lecture of MAN, Rivers/Bayelsa branch, in Port-Harcourt. Commenting on the theme of the event, which was ‘The Challenges of Manufacturing in a Globalised Economy’, Jacobs said it was apt, considering the fact that “made-in-Nigeria products are struggling to compete with its likes in the global market.” He appealed to the federal and state governments to work in synergy with MAN to improve and stabilise the economy. The Vice Chancellor, Veritas University, Abuja, Prof Mike Kwanashie, who was also the guest speaker, challenged manufacturers to brace for and embrace the realities of globalisation in manufacturing and trade. The Director-General, Standards Organisation of Nigeria, Mr Osita Aboloma, explained that the agency would continue to introduce different strategies and initiatives to make Nigerian products competitive at the global arena. He said, “The manufacturing sector holds the key to economic growth and poverty reduction in Nigeria and this is why SON will stop at nothing to rid the nation of substandard goods.” Stakeholders appealed to SON to organise a workshop specifically targeting MAN members and all they needed to know about the SONCAP regime. They stressed the need to have a conducive environment for businesses to thrive, maintaining that the Federal Government through the standards body had been proactive in discharging its mandate to protect local industries as well as the safety of lives and property of the citizenry. According to the manufacturers, the activities of SON have helped in driving local industries, thereby creating job opportunities while also attracting foreign direct investment to the real sector of the economy. The AGM was said to feature a two-day exhibition of made-in-Nigeria products especially those produced within Rivers and Bayelsa states.