The Group Managing Director (GMD)of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Dr Malkanti Kachalla Baru urged for advocacy and educating the populace on the gains and effect that the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) will have on the oil industry in Nigeria and the economy at large needs to be properly communicated. The NNPC Boss stated this in his keynote address tagged ‘PIGB: Emerging issues and concerns’ was delivered at the Association of Energy Correspondents of Nigeria (NAEC) 2018 Conference in Lagos. Dr Baru who was represented at the event by Roland Ewubare, the group general manager, NAPIMS said the government therefore relies on you as energy correspondent to assist propagate, disseminate and correctly inform the populace on the content and context of different aspect of PIGB. Government counts on your supports, he added. He further stated that the PIGB largely reflects the aspirations of the industry for the emplacement of an effective Policy, Commercial and Regulatory framework that promotes growth and efficient operations.  How ever, your role as holders of the fourth estate of the realm is critical adding that in common parlance, perception they say is the new reality, you as Energy Correspondents shape the perception. The group managing director also pointed out that the PIGB is focused on the key governing institutions in Nigeria’s oil and gas industry and aims to separate the Regulatory, Policy and Commercial roles of public sector agencies and allocate respective roles to agency  properly positioned to perform. “This is a major prospect of the Bill, the ability for both NNPC and NPAMC to recover its cost of operations before crediting the federation account. This is against the current situation where revenues flow first into the federation account and then budgeted for NNPC.  Hence, the companies will not be subjected to delayed budget process and approvals. This was the reason for the significant cash call arrears build up.” He noted that these changes wouldn’t be without challenges. We envisage a number  of them and concerted efforts would be required to tackle them. In his earlier welcome address by Olatunde Dodondawa, the Chairman, Association of Energy Correspondents of Nigeria (NAEC) Annual Conference, said that the theme of our conference this year is “PIGB: Issues & Concerns”  was chosen considering the current realities in Nigeria’s energy space. Undoubtedly, he said, the non passage of the PIGB into law has cost the nation enormous losses in term of investments and jobs. “However, the present 8th Assembly of the National Assembly in its wisdom decided to segment the Bill into four parts after over 13 years on the table for easy passage. The Bills are namely: PIGB, Administration Bill, Host Communities Bill and Fiscal Bill.” In his word: the PIGB seeks to establish a framework for the entrenchment of good governance in the oil and gas industry. Dodondawa noted that besides, the unbundling of the NNPC and making it commercially and profit driven, the PIGB will strengthen Nigerian oil and gas firms and position them to be able access international finance. Coming to the power sector, he pointed out that, comments from consumers show that power supply has marginally improved and the government can only sustain this by encouraging increased gas supply to the power sector to drive small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and industrialization growth aspirations. The Association, Chairman said the entire value chain of the power sector generation, transmission, distribution and regulatory bodies, has been characterised  by challenges, which continually create disputes between the operators and consumers. With the PIGB in place as law, these problems will be substantially addressed, he added.  The Caption Photo: The Group Managing Director of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Dr Malkanti Kachalla Baru