The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE or The Exchange) is pleased to announce the launch of X-Pay on Friday, August 3, 2018. The said X-Pay, is electronic-payment platform for the Exchange, enable users to conveniently make payments for products, services, events and trainings offered by the bourse.X-Pay, located at https://xpay.nse.com.ng, can be accessed on PCs, tablets, smartphones and other mobile devices. With features like invoice payments, intuitive products display, dynamic search functionality, X-Pay is a value-added service that designed to accepts VISA, MasterCard Verve and UnionPaycredit and debit cards. Furthermore, the platform aims to deliver a faster and safer payment method which is protected by best in class IT and card security features, in line with global best practices.  Speaking on the development, Bola Adeeko, Head Shared Services Division, NSE, said, “we are thrilled to launch X-Pay,a solution that builds on our customer centric focus and our efforts to transform the Nigerian capital market into a more efficient model. X-Pay reinstates our commitment to move towards cashless transactions and build a sustainable cashless ecosystem, while satisfying users’ preferences for self-serve bill payment options that is convenient and secure”.  According to Adeeko, NSE is leveraging the power of innovation and digital technology to improve its efficiency and reduce the cost of transactions. “With X-Pay, our stakeholders will now enjoy easy access to a wider catalog of our products and services, be able to select and purchase from anywhere, at any time. Not only will X-Pay be convenient, it will also provide huge opportunity for NSE to maximize its capacity and realize increased efficiency through automated processes and better data integration”, he added.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange continues to take huge strides in the digitization journey and position itself as a world class Exchange with best-in-class technology. Other measure took to boost efficiency of operations are follows:  About THE NSE The Nigerian Stock Exchange, a company limited by guarantee, services the largest economy in Africa and is championing the development of Africa’s financial markets. The Exchange offers listing and trading services, licensing services, market data solutions, ancillary technology services, and more. The Nigerian Stock Exchange continues to evolve to meet the needs of its valued customers, and to achieve the highest level of competitiveness. It is an open, professional and vibrant exchange, and the Entrepreneurial Growth hub of Africa. The Nigerian Stock Exchange aspires to be Africa’s foremost securities exchange, connecting Nigeria, with the rest of Africa and the world. 