 The Nation Vission20:2020 industrialization strategy aims at achieving greater global competitiveness in the production of manufactured goods by linking industrial activity with primary sector activity, domestic and foreign trade, and service activity. A key component is the promotion of a comprehensive policy of cluster development in the manufacturing and processing industries. This includes the development of industrial parks, industrial clusters and enterprise zones, and incubator facilities. Industrial parks, aimed at large manufacturers, are expected to cover areas of more than 3,050 km. The parks will be based on the comparative and competitive advantage of each geographical zone. The following business activities have been identified for each of the zones (Nigeria Vision 20:2020).  The industrial clusters, which will be established with the participation and assistance of states and local governments, will cover areas of between 100 and 1,000 ha. They will be exclusively devoted to the organized private sector. The location of the clusters will take into account access to roads, railways, sea ports, cargo airports, and proximity to a city and management will be through a private cluster company. Industrial incentives similar to those in industrial parks will also be provided, while each cluster will have a skill acquisition/training centre. Enterprise zones are platforms of 5–30 ha, targeted at incorporating the informal sector into the organized private sector. Located in state capitals and local government areas, they will enable smallholder farmers and SMEs to feed their products into the value chain of large-scale industries such as Nigerian Breweries. These centres will accommodate mechanics, block makers, small-scale furniture manufacturers, timber merchants, and other vocational workers who constitute over 70 per cent of Nigeria’s private sector. Skills acquisition/training centres will also be located in each enterprise zone, while management will be handled by the private sector. The incubators will be start-up centres for new and inexperienced entrepreneurs, graduates of tertiary institutions, investors, and vocational workers wishing to set up their own businesses. In these centres, prospective start-up companies will be equipped with entrepreneurial skills and resources aimed at nurturing them from formation to maturity. The Institutional and Regulatory Framework: In recent years, the institutional framework for the implementation of macroeconomic and industrial policies has been strengthened or established where necessary. Some improvements include the following: The CBN has been reformed and is now relatively more autonomous and powerful. A major achievement of the CBN is the consolidation of the Nigerian banking institutions, which reduced the number of banks from eighty-nine to twenty-five by the end of 2005; the banks are arguably considerably stronger and able to provide better financial services. The Customs and Excise Department has improved infrastructure, especially in the area of ICT. The National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control has improved Nigeria’s food and drug products. The SON has improved standardization of industrial products. The Nigerian Export Promotion Council has improved the implementation of export incentives. Some of the new institutions which have contributed to policy implementation include: The BoI, formed through the merger of the former Nigerian Industrial Development Bank and the Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry; The Nigerian Agricultural, Cooperatives and Rural Development Bank formed through the merger of the former Nigerian Agricultural and Cooperative Bank and the Peoples Bank; The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria among others  Strong sectoral policies are not prevalent in Nigerian industrial policy aiming at stimulating investment in areas considered to have potential. For the manufacturing sector, companies with turnover of under ₦1 million are taxed at a low rate of 20 per cent for the first five years of operation—dividends are also tax-free for this period. Dividends derived from manufacturing companies in petrol, chemical, and liquefied natural gas sub-sectors are exempt from tax. In the agro-industry, incentives include a 100 per cent tax-free period for five years in processing, favourable duties, and capital allowances, and an Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme Fund (ACGSF), where the CBN provides a partial guarantee for all loans granted by commercial banks. An arguably disproportionate range of incentives also applies to the solid minerals sector (where firms enjoy a 3–5-year tax holiday) and the oil and gas industry. Firms are also subject to a low income tax rate of between 20 and 30 per cent, royalty payments are deferred, and holders of a mining lease are entitled to a range of capital allowances and tax reliefs. Despite the size and fast pace of economic growth in the Nigerian economy over the last decade, the manufacturing sector remains weak. Past policy efforts aimed at improving the performance of the sector have failed, and the focus has shifted towards more targeted policies aimed at specific sectors, as set out in NV20:2020. A key aim is economic diversification, with a focus on stimulating the manufacturing sector and strengthening its link with the agricultural and services sectors. To address these concerns require private sector collaboration like Heineken is partnering with relevant stakeholders in the sector in sourcing its raw materials locally.  Business coordination efforts in Nigeria have been largely successful, but future cooperation will require the development of efficient, accountable, transparent, and participatory governance. Strong public service institutions can engender government effectiveness, and success will depend on the establishment of a competitive business environment characterized by sustained microeconomic stability and the enhancement of national security and justice. The import prohibition list includes a wide range of manufactured consumer goods that were often dumped in Nigeria’s relatively large market. A few agricultural products (cassava, maize, Sorghum etc) that are produced locally in large quantities are also included in the list to protect the local industry and encourage job creation.