The National Pension Commission (PenCom) has reverted to old template payment of 25 percent initial lump sum to retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme following outcry that greeted its downward review to 20 percent.As a result this development, the Commission has directed all Pension Fund Administrators to revert to the old template of 25 per cent, acting Director-General, PenCom, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar, has disclosed. Speaking through her representative, Olulana Loyimi, on Thursday at an insurance conference in Lagos, the PenCom DG said the commission decided to suspend the new template because of the criticisms against its introduction. Olulana Loyimi who is the Head, Contributions Bond Redemption Department at PenCom, said, “As you are aware the commission introduced a new template for Programmed Withdrawal which took effect from 15th May, 2018. There have however been concerns expressed by some stakeholders. “The commission in its usual responsive and consultative manner has decided to review the template. Consequently, the commission has directed that Pension Fund Administrators revert to the old template till further notice,” Loyimi explained. The commission had, in May, released the template to the PFAs for the calculation of retirement benefits to CPS retirees, which reviewed the initial lump sum being paid out to the retirees to 20 per cent of the balance in their Retirement Savings Accounts and as low as 16 per cent for some pensioners. This attracted widespread criticisms by retirees who expressed displeasure at their inability to access at least 25 per cent of the balance in their RSAs which the law hitherto allowed. Part III Section 7(1) A of the 2014 version of the law states. “A holder of a RSA shall upon retirement or attaining the age of 50 years, whichever is later, utilise the amount credited to his RSA for the following benefit: withdrawal of a lump sum from the total amount credited to his RSA provided that the amount left after the lump sum withdrawal or annuity for life in accordance with extant guidelines issue by the commission from time to time.”  The major parameters used on the template to calculate the monthly pensions are the date of birth, RSA balance, last salary before retirement and gender of the retirees 