The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) yesterday affirmed on the appointment of Pre-shipment Inspection Agents (PIAs). The appointed agents that have been approved by the Finance Minister Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, are Cobalt International Services Limited, which will operate in South-West and Carmine Assayer Limited to operate in the North-West, North-East and North-Central. Also appointed is Neroli Technologies Limited to operate in South-South and South-East. The CBN in a circular to all authorized dealers, the Nigeria Customs Service, Terminal Operators and the general public said the appointment is on temporary basis, pending the appointment of new agents, or whenever their services are no longer needed. The CBN also warned Nigerians against investments in cryptocurrency, stressing that virtual currencies are not legal tender in Nigeria. The CBN reiterated that cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ripples, Monero, Litecoin, Dogecoin, Onecoin, among others and exchanges such as NairaEx were not licensed or regulated by the regulator. In the same vein, what it term to be a major to check rising inflation, the apex regulator, the CBN, on Tuesday began the disbursement of smaller naira notes to traders in order to improve the circulation of N5, N10, N20, and N50 in the market. The development came on the day the apex bank again boosted the interbank foreign exchange market with the supply of $210million to maintain liquidity, and help boost the value of the Naira. To this end, the Acting Director, Currency Operations Department, CBN, Mrs Priscilia Eleje, conducted the disbursement of the lower Naira Bills at a publicity campaign on, “Disbursement of Lower Denominations of the Naira, at the Wuse Market, Abuja. She said the campaign was targeted at the informal sector, especially traders, with the aim of increasing the circulation of the smaller units of the naira to make doing business easier. According to her, the Federal Capital Territory will be used as the pilot stage of the new campaign, and if successful. 