The newly –constituted  board of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council under the chairmanship of Mai Mala Buni has commended the Executive Secretary of the Council, Barrister Hassan Bello and entire management for their positive role in shipping development in Nigeria. Buni stated this at the council’s headquarters in Apapa Lagos yesterday when he led other board members to an inaugural meeting with the council’s management. He assured the Shippers Council boss and entire management team of the board’s maximum support to realise the council’s target. Amehnews recalls that the Senate had passed into law the National Transport Commission (NTC) Bill which ultimately seeks to transmute the Council into the National transport Commission. Speaking, the board chairman said “I will like to acknowledge the contributions made by the Executive Secretary of the council and his team to the development of shipping business in Nigeria. The council’s enabling Act provides for its governing board and an Executive Secretary/ CEO responsible for the day to day management and implementation of policies approved by the governing board”. “This board under my watch shall corporate with board members and management team wherever and whenever necessary to improve the council” he assured. In his welcome address at the meeting, Executive Secretary of Shippers Council, Barrister Hassan Bello said the board was the 9th board since the establishment of the council in 1978. Bello noted that the council would have had its board a long time ago and that the progress of the council would been more if it had the board than without a board. According to him, the board is coming in at a time that the Shippers’ Council is undergoing a lot of changes both internally and externally. He commended the calibre of people on the board of the council, describing the organization as lucky to have them. He described the chairman as an experienced man, a coordinator of men, knowledgeable, a man that can knock and open doors. Bello urged the board to swing into action immediately because according to him, there is a limited time. “It is a privilege to welcome the 9th board of the Shippers Council; we welcome the chairman and his members to the council at a time when the council is facing a lot of changes both internally and externally” “We are very fortunate when we look at the set of board members, we are fortunate to have an array of personalities who are extremely experienced and knowledgeable; this is because the council is an agency based on knowledge and research” “Since 1978 when it was created, the council has had up-to eight boards and the management has always maintained a cordial relationship with them, we hope that this would also continue with this board” “Mr. Chairman, this relationship is based on mutual respect, synergy and achieving targets, but most of all; it is based on openness and transparency. The management has made itself open to the board in all ramifications because we find them as partners to push this council forward” “We would have had a board long time ago, but we would n’t have the compliment of the board we have right now, so we are setting out to work immediately because there is limited time” “I see us working together to realise the target of the council, not only is the council undergoing tremendous changes but the country itself is leaning more on the transport industry as far as infrastructure is concerned, realising the aims of the government in terms of employment, the sector should drive the economy of the country”, he added. In the same vein, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) on Wednesday warned that it would eject some operators from ports over non-compliance with government regulations. NSC Executive Secretary, Hassan Bello, gave the warning at a one-day seminar on “Need for Compliance with Trade Laws, Guidelines and Regulations”, held in Lagos. The seminar was organised by the NSC for port users comprising importers, exporters, freight forwarders, licensed customs agents at the seaports, borders and Inland Dry Ports (IDPs). Bello was represented on the occasion by Mr Cajetan Agu, NSC Deputy Director, Enforcement, Monitoring and Compliance. He said that non-compliance of operators with government laws and regulations at seaports and borders had led to illegal importation of arms and ammunition into the country. He said that there was the need to sanitise the shipping industry of corrupt practices occasioned by non-compliance of operators in the sector. Bello said the seminar was organised to check the increasing rate of importation of arms and other illicit goods into the country by some unpatriotic port operators. He said that laws and regulations were made to control the movement of goods, services and related financial flows. “Over time, these laws have been flagrantly abused and compromised, leading to importation and exportation of prohibited products, under- declaration of cargo, concealment, etc, thereby making government to lose money. “Some members of the trading community resorted to unethical practices that contravened the import, export procedures and guidelines, as manifested in the increasing rate of arms importation. “Also cross border smuggling, under declaration of goods with intent to evade duty, false declaration, and concealment as well as over and under invoicing of value of goods. “These issues are not exhaustive but provide a clear indication of some of the infractions in the process of cargo clearance at the seaports and border posts, ” Bello said. According to him, non-compliance delays clearance of cargo, causes extra cost of cargo clearance and total loss of cargo to competing neighbouring ports. He said that non-compliance had also led to massive loss of revenue and adversely affected the nation’s per capita income. Bello said that for compliance to improve, there was the need for partnership, collaboration and synergy between government and the private sector. Speaking earlier, the President, Shippers Association Lagos State (SALS), Mr Jonathan Nicol, said that the level of compliance with government laws and regulations in the shipping industry had been low across board. Nicol urged operators to engage the government on policies that were not easy to comply with instead of being confrontational against the government. He, however, said that there were a handful of unfavourable policies in the industry.