The National Transport Commission (NTC) is finally on the home stretch from the House of Representatives down to the national assembly before proceed to the president for assent. Following the passage of the NTC bill by the House of Representatives seeking to enact Act of establish the NTC as an independent multi-modal transport sector regulator which should be a way of expanding the Nigerian Shippers’ Council’s functions and duties. If the said bill is pass by the senate and  assent by the president, then the transmutation journey of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council into the NTC will begin with a new world order in the Nigeria political landmark as it regards to regulatory transport sector of the economy. As of today, the bill is now with the Senate for concurrence which is expected to produce an Act conferring on the Shippers’ Council the status of the NTC, thereby commence of transferring its staff, assets, ownership of land and other properties to the new regulatory body. The Act will also cede the present rights, debts, liabilities, obligations, functions and powers currently vested in the NSC to the NTC. Essentially, the main thrust of the bill is to provide efficient economic regulatory framework for the transport sector, mechanism for monitoring compliance of government agencies, transport services providers and users in the regulated transport industry with relevant legislation and advise government on matters relating to economic regulation of the transport industry. The bill prepared by Hon. Sani Isa, chairman, House Committee on Land Transport, had identified critical areas requiring urgent reforms to reposition the maritime sector and add value to the economy. The bill was sponsored by Hon. Osai Nicholas Osai. According to Osai, one of the cardinal objectives of the transport sector reforms introduced by the federal government was to bring about efficiency in services delivery and reduce the cost of doing business in the industry.

He regretted that charges have continued to increase, forcing many port users to migrate to other ports in West Africa operating under a business-friendly environment.  As expected, this situation has given rise to huge revenue losses for the Nigerian government. Amehnews recalled that last month, during Business and Maritime West Africa, a prominent industry publication, hosted a town hall meeting in Lagos on cargo and skyrocketing terminal handling charges in Nigerian ports, bringing to the fore the negative implications on port activities, national revenue and the economy in general. Speaking on the transformation of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council to NTC, Hon. Isa had said: “It was observed that the thrust of the NTC bill is economic regulation.  To a great extent, this is also the main thrust of the NTC Act”. He recalled that since its establishment in 1978, the NSC  has established national spread and accompanying assets including a 12-storey twin tower that serves as its head office complex in Lagos, a four-storey two- wings liaison office complex in Abuja, a well-equipped library and an expansive training room as well as a fleet of operational vehicles.

The Council has six zonal offices in the six geopolitical zones as well as area and port offices spread across the states of the federation. By virtue of its experience and the fact that it has been performing similar economic regulation functions in the ports sub-sector, the Council is most suited and easily adaptable to perform the role of economic regulator under the National Transport Commission. The transformation is aimed at saving costs and avoiding the duplication of agencies