Royal Dutch Shell plc (Shell), reached an agreement today to sell its shares in Shell entities in New Zealand, to OMV for USD 578mln. This follows a two-year strategic review of Shell’s interests in New Zealand and the sale of Shell’s interest in Kapuni in 2017. It is consistent with the Shell Group strategy of divesting USD 30bn of assets by end 2018, and is in line with Shell’s drive to simplify the upstream portfolio and re-shape the company into a world class investment. The agreement includes Māui, Pohokura and the Tank Farms. Shell has also entered into an agreement with OMV to sell its interest in (and operatorship of) the Great South Basin venture, which includes a drilling commitment currently estimated to be USD 50 million. The Sales and Purchase Agreement is subject to certain conditions which include normal regulatory approvals and is likely to be complete by Q4 this year. As part of the deal, the employees of Shell Taranaki Limited and Shell New Zealand will become part of OMV New Zealand, upon completion of the deal. “Today’s announcement is another step towards reshaping and simplifying our company, deepening Shell’s financial resilience and competitiveness, in order to become a world-class investment,” said Maarten Wetselaar, Integrated Gas & New Energies Director. “We are proud of having worked in New Zealand for more than 100 years. Our customers, our neighbours, the regulator and partners have been a critical part of this journey and integral to our successes. I wish them all well.” “I want to emphasise that the business will continue to be run as it is now, until the deal is complete” says Rob Jager, Country Chair of Shell Companies in New Zealand. “We have two high priorities over this transition period: to continue to run our assets in a safe and reliable manner and care for our people.” The share sale includes eight Shell NZ entities: Shell Exploration NZ Ltd (SENZL), Taranaki Offshore Petroleum Company of NZ (TOPCO), Energy Petroleum Taranaki Ltd (EPTL), Energy Petroleum Holdings Ltd (EPHL), Shell Taranaki Ltd, Energy Infrastructure Ltd (EIL), SNZ (2011) Ltd and Energy Petroleum Investments Ltd (EPIL). As part of a separate transaction, Shell GSB Ltd (SGSBL) is also being sold.