The President/Chairman of Council, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) Prof. Segun Ajibola The President/Chairman of Council, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) Prof. Segun Ajibola has called on all stakeholders in the financial services industry to take steps that would promote financial inclusion in the economy.  Prof said bringing more people into the financial services industry is not only good for the people, but helps in wealth creation and boost micro economic variables.  Ajibola, who spoke at the Body of bank CEOs meeting held at the Bankers’ House, said and stated that Financial Inclusion is a key aspect of the economy and failing in Micro economy variables would be devastating to the economy.  He stated that Financial Inclusion remains a major issue to be addressed nationwide and there is need for new initiatives to promote the awareness. He charged all stakeholders to support the body of bank CEOs to achieve with the responsibility of creating and promoting the idea to all concerned.  Chairman of Body of Bank CEOs and Managing Director, Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe said all the banks set a 60 million three-year new customer target for all the lenders. The target is in line with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) financial inclusion strategy to achieve 80 per cent financial inclusion by 2020, and take financial services closer to the people.  According to the new plan, the CBN and banks will over the next few months, roll out new initiatives, products and services to accelerate and deepen financial inclusion in Nigeria. The Body of Bank Chief Executive Officers said that access to a bank account is a first step toward broader financial inclusion since it allows people to store money, send money and receive payments.  “Over the next three years, banks aim to on-board and formally bank 60 million additional Nigerians, an average of 20 million yearly as well as enroll 40 million Nigerians on Bank Verification Number (BVN). Hence, the new target will be on driving low cost digital access, broadening financial literacy campaigns, and creating micro loans, micro insurance, and micro investment products for the benefit of excluded, underserved and low income Nigerians,” Wigwe said.  The CBN, banks, Licenced Mobile Money Operators, and Super Agents also agreed to roll out a 500,000 shared agent network to accelerate financial inclusion in Nigeria. The CBN, banks, licenced mobile money operators and super agents also announced that they have reached an agreement to fund the expansion of a shared agent network to deepen financial inclusion in Nigeria. The agreement entails an aggressive rollout of a 500,000 agent network to offer basic financial services, such as cash-out, funds transfer, bill payments, airtime purchase, government disbursements as well as remote enrollment on BMS Infrastructure to an estimated 50 million Nigerians that are currently under-banked or unbanked.  In the same vein, the CIBN has perfected arrangements towards a successful Annual General Meeting (AGM) and election of new Office Holders and Other Elective Positions in the Governing Council who will run the affairs of the Institute for a period of two years.  The AGM and election of officers scheduled for Saturday, April 7, 2018 will take place at Ijewere Hall, Bankers House, Victoria Island, Lagos, at 10 am and 12 noon, respectively.  Prof. Segun Ajibola, FCIB, FCIB, President/Chairman of Council, of the Institute will preside over the Annual General Meeting.  Moreover, the Institute upon reviewing its current electoral system have decided to further automate the entire process by leveraging on information technology thus optimizing the process and giving its targeted audience access to a transparent, accessible and cost effective electoral process for a democratic selection of its leaders. Electronic voting has been considered to be an efficient and cost effective alternative to the current classic voting procedure, it’s also seen as a means of attracting specific group of people, like young electors/voters to participate in the election. The proposed solution aims at eradicating all known challenges and providing a complete solution with adequate level of security, anonymity, authentication, data security, tractability etc.  The system shall allow online voting from home, hence, giving more members the power to choose even at the comfort of their home and wherever a member is located across the globe. The 2018 Election of the Officers will be opened to members from 4th April at 12:01am to 7th April at 12:01am.  In line with the Institute’s tradition, Chairmen and Chief Executives of banks, Past Presidents of the Institute, Presidents of other professional bodies, top Government functionaries, Fellows, Honourary Senior Members, Associates and other relevant stakeholders have been invited to attend the meeting and exercise their franchise to elect new officers.  The meeting will also consider the Annual Reports and Accounts of 2017 operational performance of the Institute and other important matters affecting the industry and the welfare of members.  It is expected that members of the Institute all over the country will turn-out en-mass and participate actively in the exercise in the interest of the Institute and banking profession.  Mr Seye Awojobi, FCIB, Registrar/Chief Executive will be the Chief Host of the events.