 Card-to-card payments disrupter PaySend continues to bring a new generation of money transfers to the African market through its new partnership with Access Bank Nigeria.  PaySend’s rapidly expanding business now operates in more than 60 countries and it is looking to boost its presence across Africa.  Ronald Millar, CEO of PaySend, said: “We are delighted to be expanding into Nigeria and to be working with Access Bank. To have reached over 60 countries in such a short time is excellent and we look forward to a long and fruitful partnership.  “Nigeria is one of our first African partners, and we definitely see great potential in the region.”  Access Bank, which has over 368 branches and service outlets across Nigeria, Sub Saharan Africa, the United Kingdom and Dubai, strives to deliver sustainable economic growth that is profitable, environmentally responsible and socially relevant.  Victor Etuokwu, Executive Director at Access Bank, Nigeria, said: “Accessibility is important in our business and we see this partnership as vital to connecting our customers to their increasingly globalised network, whether they be business contacts, friends or family.”  At present PaySend’s technology works for all Visa, Mastercard and Verve cards issued by Access Bank in Nigeria, but the company wants to go further.  “We are working together with Access Bank to expand our coverage across the country, and into other African countries to develop a broader offering in the region.”  added Ronald Millar.  The company has big plans for 2018, and are keen to build partnerships with local banks in all major African destinations. PaySend is a next generation money transfers companythat launched 12 months ago. It has created a global network through the major card schemes (Visa, Mastercard, UnionPay, local domestic payment systems) allowing its customers to send money from card-to-card . The service has been designed to provide simplicity to the remittance market, with the removal of either cash handling or complex bank codes from the consumer experience. The PaySend network currently covers over 60 countries and brings this convenience of easy, fast and secure money transfer through its website or mobile app. 