 Union Bank recently organized a day lectures for over 3000 students from 30 secondary schools across the Country as part of activities to mark this year’s Global Money Week and Financial Literacy Day (FLD) based on the theme ‘Money Matters Matter’. The Chief Executive (CE) of the Bank, Emeka Emuwa accompanied by the Executive Director, Commercial Banking, Adekunle Sonola led the team to African Church Grammar School, Abeokuta where they tutored the students on the basics of money, savings, gaining employment and becoming entrepreneurs. The Bank’s Head, Corporate Strategy and Innovation, Lola Cardoso and the Head of Corporate Affairs/ Corporate Communications, Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem were also part of the team to the school in Abeokuta. Furthermore, Senior employees of the Bank also visited 29 other schools across the country including St. John’s School, Jos; Kabe College, Awka; Al-Birr College, Damaturu and Yewa College, Ilaro where they held similar classes for the students. During his remarks, Emuwa noted that “one of the best approaches to driving financial inclusion is by engaging children and youths on the rudiments of savings in line with the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) financial literacy initiative.” While tutoring the students at African Church Grammar School, the managing director stressed the need for the students to imbibe the savings culture at a young age. He further encouraged them to learn to prioritize their needs over their wants in order to cultivate the very useful habit of saving. Financial Literacy Day is a day set aside by the CBN during the Global Money Week (GMW) to focus on increasing the level of awareness of the youth on the importance of earning, managing and saving money in order to have a secure future. Union Bank aligns with this initiative that is targeted at getting more young people to participate in the formal banking system in order to create financially savvy citizens who trust and can navigate within the Nigerian financial system and its various institutions.  Union Bank remains committed to improving financial literacy and the ultimate goal of ensuring that Nigerian students are financially literate and able to make sound financial decisions that will lead to a productive and successful life. About Union Bank Plc: Union Bank Plc established in 1917 and listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1971, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc is a household name and one of Nigeria’s long-standing and most respected financial institutions. The Bank is a trusted and recognizable brand, with an extensive network of over 300 branches across Nigeria. In late 2012, new Board of Directors and Executive Management teams were appointed to Union Bank and in 2014 the Bank began executing a transformation programme to re-establish it as a highly respected provider of quality financial services. The Bank currently offers a variety of banking services to both individual and corporate clients including current, savings and deposit account services, funds transfer, foreign currency domiciliation, loans, overdrafts, equipment leasing and trade finance. The Bank also offers its customers convenient electronic banking channels and products including Online Banking, Mobile Banking, Debit Cards, ATMs and POS Systems. More information can be found at: www.unionbankng.com Media Enquiries: Email yowonubi@unionbankng.com