Professor Kingsley Chiedu Moghalu, former Deputy Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, will deliver The Bullion Lecture 2018. Professor Moghalu, currently the President, Institute for Governance and Economic Transformation, was until recently, Professor of Practice in International Business and Public Policy at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, United States of America. Professor Moghalu is a global leader who has made contributions to the stability, progress and wealth of nations, communities and individuals across such domains as academia, economic policy, banking and finance, entrepreneurship, law and diplomacy.
Professor Moghalu will be speaking on The Wealth of Nations and the Imperative of Economic Transformation. The Bullion Lecture, a platform conceptualised by Centre for Financial Journalism (CFJ Nigeria) for lively discourse on national and international issues, is always delivered by first-rate academics and professionals.
The 2018 edition of The Bullion Lecture will hold 10am on Wednesday, March 21, 2018 at The Civic Centre, Ozumba Mbadiwe Road, Victoria Island, Lagos. According to a press statement issued in Lagos by Ray Echebiri, Founder/Chief Executive Officer of CFJ Nigeria, the Lecture will be chaired by erudite Lawyer and Economist, Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye, Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). Distinguished panelists who will dissect the lecture are Ms. Patience Oniha, Director General, Debt Management Office; Mr. Obinna Onunkwo, Managing Partner, Purple Capital; and Mr. Ade Adefeko, Vice President, Government and Corporate Affairs, Olam Nigeria. While Ms. Oniha will dwell topically on public debt management and economic transformation, Mr. Onunkwo will focus on private capital and economic transformation, and Mr. Adefeko will be looking at agriculture and economic transformation. Expected guests at the lecture include government officials, captains of industry, the cream of Nigeria’s banking and finance industry, members of the diplomatic corps, representatives of multilateral institutions, senior media executives and other journalists, and members of the public. CFJ Nigeria, organisers of The Bullion Lecture, was established to provide specialised training programmes in financial journalism with a view to addressing the knowledge and skills gap in the practice of the trade, and to conduct research on financial journalism, business, the economy, development and banking and finance.