“I am here to support the CGC in achieving his Revenue drive. This is imperative as the Federal Government strives to diversify the economy. We must work very hard to make sure we surpass our Revenue Target. It will be to our credit to achieve this task. I know we can do it” Within a few days of assuming duty as Customs Area Controller, CAC, Comptroller Jayne JAyne Shoboiki, PhD, had her inaugural parade with officers and men of the command on Monday 26 February, 2018, she charged all officers to sit up and stay focused on their duties as Customs officers. Specifically, the MMA Command Controller was emphatic that meeting the Command’s Revenue Target is a task that must of necessity be accomplished in line with the presidential mandate given to the Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali (rtd) while reform and restructuring of the Service is also being implemented. Comptroller Shoboiki also stressed that she will not condone indiscipline. According to her, “I will adopt the carrot and stick approach but I will not hesitate to drop the carrot and use the stick unsparingly as far as  revenue generation is concerned”. She charged all head of units/sheds to rise up to their responsibilities and warned that she will not accept excuses. In her words “As heads of units or sheds or anywhere else you work as head, you must take charge because I will hold you responsible for whatever happens. While tasking officers on the need to be disciplined and professional, she also enjoined them to dress properly always as failure to do so would attract sanctions. She told her officers that acts of lateness or absenteeism from work are act she has no patience with.

She urged all officers to cooperate and work together as one family in order to achieve the expectations of government and ensure that Nigeria prospers economically. In another development, the CAC  received the Senate Committee on Customs and Tariff. The Committee which was at MM Command on oversight function also inspected the Government warehouse of the Command. Chairman of the Committee, Senator Hope Uzodimma, said the visit is in accordance with parliamentary procedures and in tandem with the rules of the Senate of Federal Government of Nigeria. He enjoined Customs to do more in the area of revenue generation to enable government meet its numerous national obligations. Comptroller Shoboiki has also gone round to inspect the sheds in NAHCO, SAHCO and DHL. She implored all officers to be on their toes and do their duties diligently.
During her inspection tour, she called for immediate inspection of some consignments which were awaiting examination.  In course of her inspection, she also ordered that a consignment for export be withheld to confirm proper documentation. She expressed satisfaction with the  various cooling systems within the airport used for the storage of vaccines and medicaments. The CAC has also met with the critical stakeholders and representatives of ANLCA and NAGAFF, Airline Operators and Terminal Operators of the Command.
She charged them to be Compliant and avoid false declarations/concealments. She warned that she will not take kindly to infractions in any form. “I am here to support the CGC in achieving his Revenue drive. This is imperative as the Federal Government strives to diversify the economy. We must work very hard to make sure we surpass our Revenue Target. It will be to our credit to achieve this task. I know we can do it”, the CAC said. The clearing Agents pledged their support and agreed to work with the Controller so that the Revenue target of the Command will not only be met but surpassed. In the same vein, the 1st Female Controller has also met with head of sister Agencies stationed at the international Airport; The Nigeria Immigration Service, NIS, The Nigeria Police Force, NPF, Management of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, FAAN, the DSS, the Military Air Force and others. Comptroller Shoboiki solicited for their support and cooperation in order to actualize the mandate of all agencies. In her words “Airports are regarded as gateways to many countries of the world, when people come with their perceptions, we must let them see a reality that is different. Perception is not reality. let us show the world that a lot of the things they hear about us are far from what exist here when they come by conducting ourselves and businesses professionally in line with international best practices”, Shoboiki said.