Fidelity Bank Plc, top Nigerian lender will on Friday organise a focused session tagged ‘The Millennial Takeover: How Millennials Are Changing The Financial Landscape” at the ongoing 2018 Social Media Week (SMW) holding at the Landmark Event Centre, Victoria Island in Lagos. The Bank’s decision to participate in the weeklong conference was borne out of the need to further deepen ongoing conversations around social media and technology in relation to its impact on business, society and culture around the globe.  SMW Lagos is a conference that provides the ideas, trends, insights and inspiration to help people and businesses understand how to achieve more in a hyper-connected world. The event features a central stage for keynotes and panels, multiple rooms for workshops, master-classes and presentations, and an area dedicated to co-working, networking and interactive installations. Its mission is to help people and organizations connect through collaboration, learning and the sharing of ideas and information.  The panel discussion which will be moderated by Producer, radio & television host, Folu Storms will have Mo Abudu, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), EbonyLife TV; Bayo Adekanmbi, Chief Transformation officer (CTO), MTN Nigeria; Shola Akinlade, Co-Founder/CEO, PayStack; Gbolahan Joshua, Chief Operations & Information Officer (COIO), Fidelity Bank Plc; Layi Funsho, Head, Mobile & Web Payments, Fidelity Bank Plc, Ndidi Nwuneli, Founder/Director, LEAP Africa; Sam Onyemelukwe, Managing Director, Trace and Oluwole Oyeniran, Technology & Digital, Deloitte & Touche, as panelists. Being a first time sponsor of the Social Media Week, the Bank is committed to facilitating the digital revolution in the technology eco system in Nigeria and by extension Africa. Speaking on the event, the Fidelity Bank’s COIO, Gbolahan Joshua pointed out that rapid advancement in technology has resulted in a shift in consumer behaviour. He noted that the session’s theme was germane considering that millennials are transforming the banking industry by demanding extraordinary out of the box solutions and creating upgraded digital services that exceed their own increasingly high service delivery expectations.  “As a Bank, our mission is to make financial services easy and accessible to our customers. Digital technologies for us hold an enormous opportunity for greater financial inclusion”, Joshua explained. The Fidelity COIO urged participants at the Social Media Week 2018 to make out time to visit Fidelity Bank’s lounge to enjoy a superior digital banking experience. Closing the SMW Lagos, the Bank will treat attendees including existing and prospective customers to the mixer session (party) anchored by DJ Sose and Chuey Chue.