Despite assurances from Nigeria’s state oil firm that fuel scarcity is now a thing of the past, the recent ultimatum issued by the Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association (DAPPMA) is likely to restarts the fuel scarcity if not settle in time.. Amehnews recalls that in February, the DAPPMA Executive Secretary, Olufemi Adewole, released a statement issuing a 14-day ultimatum to the federal government to settle the N650 billion debt allegedly owed its members. The statement said that if government failed to meet the deadline, DAPPMA would direct its members to shut all the depots the NNPC uses to store imported products as well as disengage their over 10,000 workers. Also, the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) has warned that it will shut down the oil sector if DAPPMA sacks its members as threatened in its statement. NUPENG President, Igwe Achese, who addressed reporters after a stakeholders’ meeting in Lagos said while the Union would protect its members from the threats, there was an urgent need to call for dialogue with the marketers. He added that if the issues were not promptly addressed, NUPENG would be at the receiving end. “The problem will not only affect workers, but also tanker drivers. Hence, if it happens, we will react to protect our members. If workers are sacked, the Union will react accordingly,” he said. The NUPENG chief however said government should wake up to the reality that NNPC alone could not sustain petroleum supply in the country. “We have always said it that, for fuel crisis to end, our refineries must come back on stream. If we are importing, that should only be a stop-gap,” Achese said. Reacting, Adewole said DAPPMA members were under constant pressure from banks and the Assets Management Corporation (AMCON), with looming threats of imminent take-over of their petrol stations, tank farms and other facilities. He said this had left them with no other option than to immediately commence massive staff disengagement. “In the light of the above and after exhausting all formal avenues to secure payment of these debts, we have given government notice of the likelihood of disengaging our personnel”, Adewole said. M&P gathered that while the Ministry of Finance insisted the sum had been forwarded for legislative approval, lawmakers denied receiving any notification. M&P confirms that last year, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo directed Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, to pay oil marketers all outstanding subsidy claims, estimated at about $2 billion after verification and study of the legal implication of continued delay. Adeoosun, however, noted that although the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved promissory notes for settlement of the arrears and other liabilities inherited from the previous administration, the National Assembly was yet to approve the payments. If the issues highlighted by the DAPPMA ultimatum which is set to expire on Wednesday, March 7 2018, are not addressed, the outcome would be a huge setback for the NNPC’s efforts to sanitize and stabilize the nationwide supply and distribution of petroleum products which presently is still a struggle.