The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA) has expressed her concerns despite the federal government’s introduction of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC), the avoidable delay in the clearance of cargoes from the ports still persists. Mrs Iyalode Alaba Lawson, the National President of the Association, stated this in Lagos on Thursday at a seminar on port charges described the intervention of PEBEC in port operations as largely misplaced when other important provisions that would have made it relevant were not put in place. The President was represented at the event by Mrs. Fola Takim Ndifor, a national officer of the association noted that lack of the required amenities and facilities to make operations seamless is taken to ‘a mirror in the sun’ have defeated the essence of PEBEC and even made it a contributor to the delay in the clearance of cargoes from the ports.

“The lingering delay in clearing containers at Nigerian ports still persists despite PEBEC’s intervention which is a far cry from what is obtainable in other African ports such as Ghana and Benin Republic. “The ports have a low level of modern functional technology for automation, valuation, data base, integrated process system and many more,” she said. The NACCIMA president maintained that the association has urged other relevant agencies to put in place more effective strategies to improve the overall efficiency of the ports and reduce the cost of doing business. With such strategies and infrastructure in place, the NACCIMA boss reiterated, the cost of doing business in the country will drop and make the ports the hub for international freight and trade in West Africa. “As the foremost apex business association in the country and the voice of Nigeria business, NACCIMA is ready to use its broad network base which encompasses the grassroots to continue to strengthen its partnership with the Shipping Correspondents Association of Nigeria and other organisations represented here today towards greater development of our economy and the nation at large”, Lawson said. Despite the delay in the clearance of cargoes from the ports, she commended the federal government for the introduction of PEBEC for its action plan 2.0 reform initiatives aimed at enabling quicker and easier movement of goods across borders.

“Through prevention of multiple inspection, reducing documentation for exportation which the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has started implementing by reducing the number of agencies at the seaports to six and the number of papers and government departments operating in the port, we look forward to further implementation of the action plan”, she said. Amehnews recall that the Federal Government, in March 2017, introduced the PEBEC as a business enhancement initiative in a bid to ease the clearance of goods from the ports.