The-Customs-Area-Controller-Port-Harcourt-Area-2-Command-Onne-Rivers-State-Comptroller-Bashir-Abubakar
The  Port Harcourt, Area II Command of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), said it has collected the total amount of N93,671,449,437.27 (Ninety three billion, six seventy one million, four hundred and forty nine thousand, four hundred and thirty seven Naira, twenty seven kobo) as against N112,500,626,038.50 of the 2017 Annual allocated revenue target of 83.26%. In continuation of the feat demonstrated so far, 26 seizures were recorded with Duty Paid Value (DPV) of N470,011,478.38 in the same year. According to the Area Controller of the Command, Comptroller Abubakar Bashir while disclosing his 2017 operational activities to Journalists revealed that due to several efforts mechanisms in line with the Service mandate embarked upon some training programmes for its Officers and Men as well as stakeholders. The Command also initiated and co-facilitated a seminar in the Oil and Gas Free Trade Zone titled ‘’Improved Service Delivery’’ which helpfully assisted to ensure the Command is well informed of challenges faced by operators within the zone. Bashir hinted that for achievable mission, “We have collaborated with other government agencies to fully implement the Presidential directive on the Ease of Doing Business”, he said. Comptroller Bashir speaking further said that the 2018, annual revenue target is N117,811,628,817.11, in which over N11,436,381,551.50 has been declared, adding that they have intensified to align the Command mandate in tandem with the Service mission and vision. To attain greater heights in subsequent performances in 2018, the Command has resolved to improve on the achievements of 2017 by displaying exemplary diligence in all its activities for for the year 2018. The Controller said that 2017 achievements was precipitated through the efforts in training and re-training of Officers and other Stakeholders to get acquainted to IT compliance and modern Customs procedures, and also deployed dispute resolution procedures for trade facilitation. He maintained that he operates by open door policy which the Command was able to receive direct feedback on its operations”. The Command, in her Anti- Smuggling operation, between January to date seized a 9 x 40’ containers Laden with 8,245 cartons of fake pharmaceuticals of 250mg of Trammell, anti malaria and analgesic drugs falsely declared as pressure reducing and PVC valves. The total Duty Paid Value (DPV) of the pharmaceuticals was estimated at N395,125,912.00. While commending the efforts of his officers who was highly delighted of the seizure made, which has high velocity of the danger it potent to the youths and the larger society. Also included in the seized items are, 8 x 20’ Containers, from Thailand, therefore, 4,120 bags of rice with Duty Paid Value of N64,878,141.48, this intercepted containers were falsely declared as sewing machines to beat security check. However, the total Duty Paid Value (DPV) of consignments seized in the first two months of 2018 stood at N460,004,053.48, saying that they are resolute in their determination to bring to an end the nefarious act of the illicit transactions of fake pharmaceuticals and other dangerous items. These consignments, according to him, have been duly inventoried and the Command in line with its mandate has already liaised with NAFDAC for further action. We have consistently maintained our policy of zero tolerance for any activity that would jeopardize the well being of Nigerians and have remained steadfast in our commitment to achieve the goals of the Nigeria Customs Service in terms of revenue generation and anti-smuggling”. On exports activities within the year, Bashir said that, so far the Command has processed various oil and non-oil exports with an FOB value of $90,800,000.00. This again, he said was laudable as the federal government’s business policy is also focused on encouraging exports in order to maximise the benefits of accessing the international market. He further stated that one of the Export Inspection Agencies,Neroli Technologies Limited officially acknowledged the Command’s 2017 performance as one of the best in the last twelve years of Customs operations in the zone. On inter -agency corporation, the Command has consistently and cordially engaged other government agencies like NAFDAC, SON, NIMASSA etc which had led to the sharing of vital information that has proven to be useful at crucial moments. Bashir further said the Command has received the newly constituted ‘’Strike Force’’ team from Customs Headquarters, sent to compliment the efforts of the Command in its efforts to achieve maximum compliance in 100% examination of cargo and increased revenue generation. He promised to work together as one body to achieve the aims and objectives of the Service. He called on all stakeholders to comply with extant laws for a Smooth operations in the trading chain. “We are therefore using this medium to communicate the importance of complying with extant laws on import and export, we encourage all traders to be honest in their declarations in order to avoid the negative consequences of flouting the law”. He reinstated the activities of the Nigeria Customs Service which cuts across all facets of life in the sense that the seize items like elephant tusk are actually engaged in protecting wild life and natural habitats. “When we seize rice and other banned food items, we are actually engaged in enhancing the capacity of local entrepreneurs to employ Nigerians, improve local food production and achieve self sufficiency in agricultural growth. When we seize arms and ammunitions, we are actually engaged in enhancing national security and promoting peace and harmony in the society. All we therefore need from Nigerians is their support so we can diligently perform our activities and successfully meet the mandate of the Service, he affirmed.