 The Plateau State Council of Chiefs and Emirs has condemned the incessant killings perpetrated by suspected Fulani herdsmen with a call on the government to intervene and intensify efforts at ending the bloodletting. The monarchs who described as false the interpretation that the killings in Plateau State were communal clashes, expressed shock that the perpetrators of the killings were bold enough to strike even on the day when President Muhammadu Buhari visited Plateau State. The chairman of PSCCE and Gbong Gwom Jos, His Royal Majesty Jacob Buba Gyang, stated this at the end of the monarchs’ quarterly meeting held on Thursday in his palace. Apart from Gbong Gwom, those who attended the meeting included the Long Geomai Shendam, HRH Miskoom Shaldas 3rd; Long Tehl, HRH Donal Puntel; Emir of Wase, HRH Alhaji Mohammed Sambo Haruna; Emir of Kanam, Alhaji Babangida Muazu Mohammadu; Agwom Izere, Rev. Dr. Isaac Azi Wakali and Long Pan, HRH Nda Emmanuel Dabang. The traditional rulers regretted the killings and destruction of property during the recent visit of the President, saying it had raised great concerns. Gyang said, “I want to say without any doubt that the killings in Plateau State are not communal clashes. If anybody says so, let them mention the communities involved in the clashes. “They are normal security challenges involving farmers and herdsmen, armed robbery and many others. What we have witnessed in Bokkos and Irigwe chiefdoms in Bassa cannot be interpreted as communal clashes. To the best of my knowledge the attackers came from outside. The villagers don’t go outside to attack. “We had Mr. President here a few days ago, we thank God that his visit was successful and he left Plateau peacefully. But of great concern is the fact that when Mr. President was still here, there were very serious killings in Bokkos Local Government Area and Bassa LGA here, particularly in Irigwe chiefdom that is very close. “One wonders that while Mr. President was here, despite the security coverage that accompanied Mr. President wherever he goes, there were still these happenings so close to where Mr. President was when he visited Plateau. “It raises a lot of questions and concerns. We condemn in every serious terms, these killings, not only in Plateau State but in different parts of the country. We are calling on government at all levels to intervene and intensify efforts to ensure that sanity reigns in Nigeria once more, noting the fact there cannot be development anywhere if there is no security. “Principal among the issues we discussed (in the meeting) is that of security. We want to note most sincerely our deep sorrow of what is happening in Plateau State these days. We have had to relate with each other on the Plateau. “Both government, security agencies and traditional rulers council have been working assiduously to ensure that this peace continues and waxes stronger and stronger. Most unfortunately, the escalation of violence and killings that we are faced with has raised issues of great concern.” The monarch also used the occasion to read the communique of the National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria after their meeting and the 9th General Assembly held on January 30 and 31, 2018, with the theme, “Community policing as a catalyst for crime prevention: The role of traditional rulers.” He said, “What we have been talking about here is a follow up of what happened in Port Harcourt on January 30 and 31, 2018 at the Presidential Hotel when the National Council of Traditional Rulers met and discussions were very frank as regards the security of the country. “The media should note that traditional rulers are not just watching. We hold various meetings. This communique has been forwarded to President Muhammadu Buhari.”