 The Peoples Democratic Party has congratulated former President Olusegun Obasanjo as he clocks 81 today. The party described him as an outstanding nationalist; a courageous and dedicated leader, who has made immeasurable sacrifices towards the development, stability and growth of the nation. The National Publicity Secretary of the party , Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement in Abuja on Sunday,  said the party was proud of Obasanjo, who he said,  had excelled as an international figure and made outstanding contributions toward global peace and development, particularly, in the African sub-region. Ologbondiyan said, “Indeed, the PDP intensely celebrates former President Obasanjo who stands tall as one of the best performed Nigerian presidents chiefly because his administration founded and anchored its policies and programmes on the PDP’s people-based manifesto and ideology.” Also, the Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun, has described Obasanjo, as a quintessential leader, committed to the development of Nigeria. This was contained in a statement released in Abeokuta on Sunday on behalf of the governor by the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Adedayo Adeneye. Amosun further said the retired general and statesman, as military head of state and civilian president, demonstrated an exceptional passion for the socio-economic development of the country and wellbeing of Nigerians. He added, “His service to the nation can be summarised as that of total sacrifice and exceeding zeal to ensure that Nigeria is great. Even incarceration did not douse his vision.” The governor further described Obasanjo as a phenomenon, who was a gallant soldier, astute engineer and consistent statesman. Amosun noted that his sterling leadership qualities and administrative acumen, had been of great benefit to Nigeria, the international community and mankind in general. He said, “This is an international figure, a distinguished Nigerian and an illustrious son of Ogun State, a shining star, whose enviable reputation has not been diminished by diverse challenges.” The governor prayed that God would grant the former president good health, wisdom and knowledge, to re-energise him towards an accomplished global leadership.