 A total of 10,000 rural communities across the country are to be electrified by the Federal Government through mini power grids. According to the Rural Electrification Agency, the government has also commenced moves that will ensure a reduction in the costs of mini grid-delivered electricity by over 60 per cent. The REA was set up by the Federal Government with the primary objective of increasing electricity access to rural and underserved communities. The agency developed an off-grid electrification strategy to support mini grids and other off-grid solutions to support the Federal Government’s policy of incremental growth. The agency and Rocky Mountain Institute commenced a three-day mini grid programme on Wednesday that brought together global stakeholders and investors to evolve a road map that was both actionable and scalable. The RMI, according the REA, is an independent non-profit institute founded in 1982 that transforms global energy use to create a clean, prosperous and secure low-carbon future. The agency said the goal of the 20 by 20 Design programme was to cut costs of mini grid-delivered electricity by over 60 per cent by addressing items such as system costs, demand stimulation and enabling policy. Commenting on essence of the programme, the Managing Director, REA, Damilola Ogunbiyi, said, “The aim of the REA is to roll out 10,000 mini grids rapidly to support underserved communities in Nigeria and with the current regulatory landscape, Nigeria is the best market to do mini grids.” The agency said the multibillion dollar revenue opportunity would create sustainable energy for hundreds of millions of people and combine the power of global supply chains with local market entrepreneurs and communities. “I’m positive we have the right people and they will deliver a financially viable solution that will truly be a game changer for the market and more importantly, for the people and communities who will gain access to power for the first time,” the Chief Executive Officer, RMI, Jules Kortenhorst, stated. The REA stated that high-potential markets and specific min grid sites in Nigeria would be used to pilot the recommendations from the programme. It said RMI’s Sustainable Energy for Economic Development Programme had been working in sub-Saharan Africa since 2016.