GMD NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru (middle), flanked by the Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu (right) and the Chairman of Caverton Offshore Group, Mr. Remi Makanjuola (left) during the official unveiling of 11 new additional aircrafts to the Caverton Helicopters fleet in Lagos, Thursday. The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Dr. Maikanti Baru, has restated the corporation’s commitment to support indigenous companies operating in the oil and gas industry to grow to their fullest potential.  The GMD who stated this in Lagos on Thursday at the official unveiling of 11 new helicopters to Caverton Offshore Group, an indigenous aviation and marine logistics service provider, commended the company for its high quality services to the oil and gas sector.  He said with the Federal Government doing so much to stabilize the economy, NNPC would continue to encourage investors like Caverton Group in the keeping with the provisions of the Nigerian Content Act. He expressed confidence that the company would deliver on its new contract to provide aviation services for the NNPC/Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) Joint Venture project based in Escravos.  “The award of a new contract by the NNPC/Chevron JV and the capacity of the Caverton Group to respond and mobilize with the introduction of 11 brand new helicopters exhibit the quality of character and tenacity of purpose of the company’s management.  “The development also represents true commitment towards ensuring seamless running of the nation’s oil and gas industry and by extension the Nigerian economy,” Baru said.  The firm was last year awarded a five-year logistics support contract by CNL, operator of the NNPC/CNL JV, for provision of aviation services with a two-year renewable option. He urged the company to continue to raise the bar in its business in order to position itself as company of choice in its chosen area of operation. Earlier in his speech, the CEO of Caverton Offshore Group, Mr. Olabode Makanjuola, thanked the GMD and other partners for their consistent patronage, pledging that the company would continue to soar to greater heights. He recalled that when the company started, they were told that the business was an exclusive preserve of foreign companies, “but people like Dr. Baru kept encouraging us, in line with their belief in supporting the growth of indigenous companies.” He said over the years, the company had grown from a family business of six people to about 700 employees. He also thanked the NNPC/CNL JV for the opportunity to participate in the latest Escravos project, even as he expressed confidence that Caverton would work hard to meet the expectations of its clients. 