Political leader of the Bakassi people of Cross River State and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Senator Florence Ita-Giwa, says there is no faction in the party in the local government. Speaking during the commissioning of the chapter secretariat as well as the inauguration of the chapter and ward executives of the party in Bakassi local government area, Ita-Giwa said the party was united to help President Muhammadu Buhari to succeed, so as to help resettle the people once and for all. Her words, “We also had to emphasize that Bakassi is not in any faction. In all the years of our doing elections in the party, we have never had parallel structures or factions. Yes, we do have misunderstandings, but we always come around, reconcile and come together because of the paramount interest, which are the people of Bakassi; but not to the extent of having two parallel structures. I don’t believe in that. I am too old to believe in parallel structures or factions. Bakassi is neutral. I am focused on APC winning elections. My mind is connected to Buhari winning the election so that they can come and resettle Bakassi. “We are a peculiar local government. We are not like every local government in Nigeria. We are a local government with very profound problems, that up till now, how many years ago that we were ceded without a referendum, we are still homeless, still in refugee camps, having babies and dying in camps. Until now we have not been relocated to where we call our home. To where is conducive to our way and style of living and means of livelihood. Up till now, Nigeria has continued to trample on the people of Bakassi and we are saying that enough is enough. We came to APC so we can help solidify APC and when we do that and the president wins election; the president would be able to resettle the Bakassi people very well. “We are qualified to vote as Nigerians. We went to Dayspring on our own without the support of government and got our voters’ cards to be able to vote as Nigerians. Even then, they still went to court to question the legality of that process and we thank God that INEC stood their grounds and won the case. Today Dayspring is an area where you are qualified to vote and be voted for. Under no circumstance should people continue to refer to Bakassi in numbers. We are not numbers. We have names. All the ten wards have names. We have identities. “We have our land, Dayspring. Let them take us there. We don’t need resettlement camps. We need to go to our natural place of abode so people have their traditional, political and religious lives as the case may be. That is why we are here to make that case, which is that they should leave us out of your faction issue. We have issues that are more profound than political factions.”