 Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), Mr. Ahmed Lawan Kuru (ALK) will on Tuesday October 9, 2018 at the Eko Hotels and Suites, Lagos, address aviation stakeholders as guest speaker at the annual aviation colloquium. The forum is organised annually by Nigeria TravelsMart (NTM) to seek ways of improving professionalism in the aviation sector of the Nigerian economy. The theme for this year’s edition is “Corporate Governance and Airline Industry Development in Nigeria.” ALK who has been consistent in calling for the strengthening of good corporate governance across different institutions (both private and public) in the country was selected as guest speaker by the Board of Nigeria TranvelsMart magazine because of his outstanding commitment to this call over the years. The AMCON boss, the organisers added, would also use the opportunity provided by the forum to share the experiences of AMCON’s intervention in the transport and allied sectors, with particular interest in Aero and Arik airlines. ALK would also be expected to field questions from participants, aviation practitioners and the media during the event. Speaking further on the event, Mr. Simon Tumba, Publisher and Chief Executive Officer of Nigeria TravelsMart magazine and organisers of   the   annual   colloquium added, “We are delighted to have the MD of AMCON, who is a strong advocate of good corporate governance deliver this year’s lecture. As a strong corporate player that practices what he preaches in his present organization and others he previously managed, I can tell you that industry players are already looking forward to having frank interactive session with ALK because of his bluntness.” He said, given the leading role of AMCON in Nigeria as a stabilising and revitalising agent of the federal government and necessary and timely intervention in aviation sector, which is critical to the economic growth of the nation, ALK’s contribution at the colloquium will be valuable to industry stakeholders and the country in general. Aside ALK, Tumba stated that other discussants and participants expected at the colloquium, include, Capt. Dapo Olumide, Chief Executive Officer, Ropeways Transport Limited; Mr. Chris Amenechi, VP Pricing and Revenue Management Copa Airlines; Mr. Kola Ayeye, Chief Executive Officer, GDL Asset Management Company, media practitioners, industry chieftains amongst others.