Cross River, Osun and Ekiti states have emerged as the three states with the lowest performance in terms of being financially sustainable. According to the Fiscal Sustainability Index for the 36 states as contained in the 2018 edition of the ‘State of States’ report released by BudgIT on Tuesday, Cross River ranked 36th; Osun came 35th; while Ekiti was 34th. The report, which was made available to our correspondent, also revealed that Lagos dropped from second to fourth place on its financial sustainability, notwithstanding the state’s fiscal advantage but owing to its unusually high overhead costs and increasing debts. “Rivers State sits at the top of the Fiscal Sustainability Index due to its robust revenue profile and manageable recurrent expenditure obligation. The state’s actual revenue of N209.1bn in 2017, when juxtaposed with it’s recurring expenditure obligation of N141bn in the same year, indicates Rivers is fiscally stable and able to cover its recurrent expenditure without borrowing,” the report stated. The Principal Lead, BudgIT Foundation, Gabriel Okeowo, said the report came out of a rigorous nine-month research of fiscal structure of the 36 states in the country. He stated, “As we may contemplate that this research work may not be adjudged 100 per cent perfect, we can confidently say that it reflects the picture of the economic situation of the states based on the information available to us and in the public sphere. “We are extremely concerned about the poor fiscal management thinking in Cross River with its bogus budget plan for 2018 of N1.3tn, which severely weighed it down on the index, in addition to the state’s inability to meet its recurrent expenditure obligations, its heavy debt profile and inefficient IGR collection.” BudgIT said it anticipated that if states’ economic planners could dig deeper into some of the products it had researched, they would find in them avenues to increase their respective IGRs, creating jobs and improving the wellbeing of their citizens. It concluded, “States will need to focus on boosting IGR collection and simultaneously slowing down on borrowing. States will also need to look beyond rhetoric and commit to a reduction in their operating costs, including significantly slashing of unreasonable overheads, while freeing up more spending for social and economic infrastructure. “Significant investment is needed to improve the overall economic performance at the state level, which invariably could create jobs that feed into states’ IGR.”