Over 50 members of Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN) will once again have the opportunity to undergo intensive training in the second phase of Katunga/BJAN training for media practitioners scheduled to hold on October 12, 2018 at Leola Hotel (Leadway Protea Hotel), Maryland, Lagos.  The training is designed as a partnership between Katunga Media Limited and Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN) with support from the Lagos State Chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) to ensure that journalists reporting brands and marketing in Nigeria have adequate knowledge of the profession and better understanding that will help deepen the marketing communications industry.  The session with the theme: ‘Ensuring Effective Brand Protection And Projection In The Era Of Fake News’, will have Mrs. Folake Ani Mumuney, Group Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications, First bank speaking on ‘Identifying The Specific Impacts Of Fake News On Brands’.  Mr. Ikechi Odigbo, the Group Managing Director of DDB Lagos and President of the Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria (AAAN) will also speak on ‘Fake News And Its Effect On Brand Value, The Role Of Brand Custodians And Brand Reporters.’  Panel of discussants made up of industry practitioners and representatives from both online and traditional Media include Mr. Emeka Opara, Director of Corporate Communications & CSR of Airtel, Mr. Diran Olojo of First City Monument Bank (FCMB), Mr. Charles Aigbe, Head, Corporate Communications, Fidelity Bank, Mr. Sam Ibemere, Editor-in-Chief, Ripples Nigeria, Mr. Osagie Alonge, Pulse Nigeria, Ms. Mary Ikoku, Mrs. Bose Oke and others will ensure a robust engagement.  Speaking on the training, Chief Executive Officer of Katunga Media Limited, Mr. Joseph Edgar said that there is a need to bring together media practitioners in the areas of capacity building which will foster a better understanding among all the stakeholders in the industry with a view to deepen the market and to support corporate organizations and the government in providing robust reportage.  Edgar said that, ‘’We are working closely with Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria, the umbrella body of journalists who report brands and marketing in the country to see how we can provide a platform for a continuous interaction and engagement of all the stakeholders for better understanding for the growth of the industry.’’  He added that, ‘’The first phase of the training had Mr. Feyijimi Awosika, Vice Chairman of TROYKA Holdings, Mr. Yomi Badejo-Okusanya, Group CEO of CMC Connect Burson-Marsteller, Mr. Steve Babaeko, Chief Creative Officer of X3M Marketing Ideas, Mr. Oare Ojeikere, Group Chief Marketing Officer of Dangote Group and Mr. Eniola Bello, Managing Director of Thisday Newspaper as faculties.  ‘’This time around, we are shifting a little to regulators such as APCON, AAAN and the FMCG sector by trying to push the message far beyond the marketing communications industry as possible as we can to see how we can achieve a better understanding of the issues that pervade our environment which is very critical to the economic growth of our country.’’  In his views, Mr. Goddie Ofose, Chairman of Brand Journalists Association Nigeria (BJAN) said that it is necessary to partner with Katunga Media to train BJAN members from time to time on credibility of news reportage.  Ofose said that, ’’The issue of fake news in our society is becoming a pandemic that seriously needs attention; we are working closely with Katunga Media Limited and the Lagos State Chapter of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) to ensure that Brand Journalists are well informed on the impact of fake mews on brands.’’ 