The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the commencement of the implementation of a strategic roadmap for digital identity ecosystem in the country. The digital ecosystem is a framework that leverages existing capabilities and infrastructure of distinct government agencies and private sector organisations to carry out enrolment of Nigerians and legal residents into the National Identity Database (NIDB) as well as issuance of digital identity, known as the National Identification Number (NIN) to bring about a credible and robust identity management system. The FEC approval will bring into full force the implementation of the provisions of the NIMC Act 23, 2007, which include the enforcement of the mandatory use of the National Identification Number (NIN) by January 1, 2019, and the application of appropriate sanctions and penalties on defaulters as provided under Section 28 of the NIMC Act and Regulations. Speaking on the approval, Director-General/CEO of NIMC, Engr. Aliyu Abubakar Aziz, said it was in line with the Federal Government’s efforts to reposition the country’s status in the global economy, towards achieving the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) launched in April 2017. According to him, the ERGP was designed “as an omnibus strategy for the government to meet the critical needs of the citizenry in areas such as food security, energy, transport, human capital development, but more critically developing a local digital economy.” He expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, as well as members of the FEC, National Assembly, the World Bank, the French development agency – AFD, the European Union/EIB and members of the Harmonisation Committee, including industry stakeholders whose expertise and contributions fostered harmonious discussion and created the platform for the development of the roadmap. He said all agencies of government and the private sector who are directly or indirectly into the business of data capture and service provision requiring identification of persons should note that: guidelines, processes, procedures for licensing public and private sector organisation will be published soon; enforcement of the mandatory use of the NIN for services and transactions based on the Mandatory Use of the NIN Regulations 2017, will commence; and duly licensed organisations will be required to carry out the front end services of the Identity Ecosystem (data capture, authentication and verification services, etc.) and in compliance with the provisions set out in the Nigeria Biometrics Standard.