The National Council of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has scheduled the 46th Annual General Meetings (AGM) and Manufacturers Annual lecture/Presidential Luncheon for the 26th & 27th September 2018 at Lagos Oriental Hotel, Lekki Road, Victoria Island, Lagos respectively. According to the organizer the two-day event provides opportunity for experts and Chief Executives of manufacturing concerns in Nigeria to evaluate the performance of the manufacturing sector of the economy in the past one year. The MAN President further stated that the Association will host the exclusive Private Session in the morning and later in the afternoon, an open Interactive Session between the CEO of Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP), Procurement Officers of Ministries, Departments and Agencies of Government and the Manufacturers. Thereafter, at 6pm, there would be an evening session which will focus on “Port Infrastructure and Access to Credit” with the following panel of discussants: Managing Director of Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA), Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Executive Secretary/CEO of Nigeria Shippers’ Council (NSC), Managing Director of Bank of Industry (BOI) and the Managing Director of Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN). The theme for this session is: Promoting Manufacturing through Improved Port Infrastructure and Access to Long-Term Credit Windows.While Day 2 is for the Manufacturers Annual Lecture/Presidential Luncheon and it is equally a public event, but attendance is strictly by invitation. The theme for the Manufacturers Annual Lecture/Presidential Luncheon is “Mainstreaming Policies to Catalyze Industrial Renaissance” and our choice of the theme was borne out of the need to appraise the performance of industrial policy initiatives, with a view to ensuring that they are positively aligned to the industrial aspirations and overall economic development agenda of the nation. His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR is expected to attend the event as the Special Guest of Honour while His Excellency, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, President, Republic of Ghana will be the Distinguished Guest Speaker.  It is important to note that the choice of our Speaker was based on his antecedents.According to MAN, His Excellency, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo is a multi-disciplinary personality: a teacher; an economist; a lawyer; a technocrat; a diplomat; a linguist; a philanthropist; and a human rights activist. He has meritoriously served his country in numerous high-level capacities before he was elected President in 2017. From 2001 to 2007, he served as a Cabinet Minister, first as Attorney-General and Minister of Justice for two years, which was when he ensured the repeal of the Criminal Libel Law of Ghana that was used to shut down public opinions.  Afterwards, he served as Foreign Minister of Ghana for five years. No doubt, the policy directions of His Excellency since assumption of office as President have positively impacted on the performance of the Ghanaian economy. “Other invited guests who have confirmed attendance include the Senate President, Honorable Ministers of Industry, Trade and Investment, Power, Works and Housing and Science and Technology, members of the Diplomatic Corps, Heads of International Organizations and other major Stakeholders in Nigeria. “The Association also intends to use the occasion of the Annual General Meeting to present a vivid picture of the current realities of citing or operating a business concern, especially manufacturing in Nigeria, show case novel innovations and made-in-Nigeria products as well as collectively agree on workable survival strategies Dr. Frank Udemba Jacobs, the President Manufacturers Association of Nigeria said We did all we had to do to remain unwavering in advocating for a friendlier operating environment for the manufacturing sector, the economy in general and the overall wellbeing of the citizenry. The MAN President disclosed saying “I will be completing my four-year tenure as President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria and my successor will commence his tenure as the 10th President of the Association for the next four years after the Manufacturers Annual Lecture/Presidential Luncheon taking place on Day 2 of the AGM.” 