The Federal Government has purchased two core drilling machines at a cost of N360m. The machines where purchased to collect geological data. They can as well drill depths of up to 1.2km. Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Hon. Abubakar Bwari said that  is left is for the country’s geologists to use the machines to collect bankable data that will attract investors. Bwari added that tge Federal Executive Council approved the purchase because the present administration is giving the mining sector the much needed attention. Speaking yesterday in Abuja at the commissioning of the two drilling machines at the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA), Bwari stated that the agency had looked forward to the purchase for decades. His words: “We just commissioned the rig that was approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC), and its main function is to do core drilling to collect geological data and this is the first time we are having a rig of this nature, it is a rig that can go down 1.2km and can perform a lot of functions apart from generating geological data. It can also be used to drill boreholes and as well  for geo-thermal energy, it is a multi purpose rig that the country has been looking forward to purchasing for decades. “The challenge is now left for our geologists to use it to generate the required geoscience data because this sector cannot thrive without data and investors will only come to countries with bankable data and the rigs can enable us get that data. “FEC approved about N360m for the two machines. The attention for this sector was not there for a very long time but now that the political will is there, the government is giving this sector the attention now. “Secondly we commissioned where we want to put our sensimometers that we will use to monitor earthquake and tremor. After the Kwoi earthquake in Kaduna we knew that we had to be proactive so we budgeted for sensimometers and bought them and as we where aboit to install them, the Abuja occurrence took place, so today we will be installing one in Abuja out of the six we intend to install around the country and it will be done based in geological requirements.” Director General, NGSA Alex Nwegbu explained that the agency had been filled with expectation for the machinery for over 30 years. He added that the drilling machine is unique because it goes far beyond other machines that go as far as 200-300 meters down.