SIFAX Group has partnered with two non-governmental organisations (NGOs), Initiative for National Growth and Mo Rainbow Foundation, to train physically-challenged children in Lagos. 70 visually-impaired and 50 children living with the down syndrome benefitted from these trainings. At the training for the visually-impaired organized by the Initiative for National Growth, topics such as choosing a career in public speaking, mass communication, law and psychology, mobility skills for the blind, legal rights, music therapy and sports skills were discussed in addition to free malaria and HIV tests that were done for both the participants and their caregivers. Mo Rainbow Foundation, on its own part, while the children living with the down syndrome were hosted to a five-day inclusive creative arts training, which was meant to enhance their learning and adaptive skills. Dr. Fola Rogers-Saliu, Executive Director, Human Resources and Administration, SIFAX Group noted that the company’s resolve in making the society a better place for everybody especially the physically challenged is the main reason for sponsoring the programmes. She said: “At SIFAX Group, we take delight in supporting social causes that positively impact and add value to the society. The major beneficiaries of our social interventions are the less privileged – the poor, orphans, widows, physically-challenged children, among others. “Physically-challenged children are shut out of many opportunities in the country due to their condition. These training were then designed to prepare them for the real world, to equip them with skills that are required to succeed, even in a competitive environment. We believe that the society could gain a whole lot if the abilities and talents of these children are appropriately tapped. That’s why SIFAX Group is backing these initiatives.” Rachael Inegbedion, Coordinator, Initiative for National Growth, noted that the blind community has been underserved especially with training that centers on equipping them with life skills. “I and my team, after careful deliberations saw that there is a need to equip the blind community with life skills that will make them better people in the society. With this training, we want to stimulate the abilities in them and see them grow to become renowned professionals and experts in the different fields they have been trained today”, she explained.Visually-impaired participants at the training organized by Initiative for National growth and sponsored by SIFAX Group. The training equipped them with life skills that will make them better in the society. On her own part, Tola Makinde, Creative Director, Mo Rainbow Foundation, thanked SIFAX Group for supporting the children living with the down syndrome. She noted that the children needed a special learning process, adding that creative arts was one of the best ways to get the best out of them. “These children are special and these five days special arts and crafts session exposed the special talents these children possess. They are not useless as some people would think. The reason why we organized this session was to unearth the innate talent they possess. We thank SIFAX Group for this sponsorship and we hope to continue to reach more children living with down syndrome though these special sessions”, she said.