A renowned nutritionist and wellness advocate, Dr Bisi Abiola has dismissed the claim that fruit juice is partly responsible for excess sugar and other health challenges such as diabetes and cancer.  Rather, she said that pure fruit juice intake should be encouraged as part of healthy lifestyle campaign as it provides vital nutrients required for proper functioning of human systems.  Abiola, who is the Managing Director of Indulge Nigeria Limited, made this observation during the September edition of her monthly wellness dialogue series, an educative programme supported by Chivita She explained that sweetened process foods are the major cause of excess sugar and diabetes, adding that pure fruit juices reduce the challenges through detoxification.  Abiola pointed out that 100% fruit juice contains no-added sugar, flavour or preservatives, adding that there is no direct link between the product and health risks such as obesity, cancer, diabetes and dental decay.  According to her, 100% fruit juice contains fructose, which is equivalent to the raw fruits they are made from. She noted that juice is an important source of nutrients for many people and that 100% fruit juice makes an invaluable contribution to achieving daily requirement of Vitamin C.  According to her: “A glass of pure orange fruit juice is also a good source of folate and potassium. It is a difficult task for children, and harder for adults to eat the five recommended portions of fruit a day, a problem readily solved by ready-to-drink fruit juices like Chivita 100% Fruit Juice.  But, the sugar scare is overshadowing the positive contributions that fruit juice makes to the national health.  Abiola said: “Research supports favourable effects of fruit juices on lipid profile and blood pressure… With regards to dental decay, there is no major evidence of a link with the consumption of fruit or fruit juices, except when related to feeding bottles in early childhood.  “In a methodical review of the evidence, there exists no reliable evidence of negative impact of 100% fruit juice on health, including body weight, cardiovascular disease and risk of type two diabetes…  Sugar in 100% fruit juice always comes with the fruits that have been juiced. It is never added.  Accordingly, the World Health Organisation takes account of natural sugars contained in fruit juices in the ‘free sugars’ category.” 