It was a celebration of excellence for all quoted companies that emerged tops in various categories on the Capital Market Correspondents Association of Nigeria (CAMCAM) Awards list at the weekend in Lagos. In a keynote speech on behalf of Ms. Mary Uduk, Director-General of the SEC, Henry Roland Adekunle, Acting Commissioner, Corporate Services, at the commission, noted the relationship between excellent performance company performance and imbibing good corporate governance. The acting DG said the Commission will support Association in its quest to rewards best companies performances in capital market ecosystem going forward. In earlier welcome address, The Association Chairman, Goddy Egene said that all awardees are duly deserved based on the data used in evaluate them adding that the award will be annual event in CAMCAN activities Calendar. He thanks all those who contributed to the success of the event while appreciate the former NSE DG, Prof mrs Mrs Okekeke-Onyiuke who promised to be at event in person and she did not failed. The event, the maiden CAMCAN of Nigeria Capital Market Performance Awards 2018 to reward resilience based on performance of companies listed on the floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (The NSE) for the year ended December 31, 2017, with members of the Dangote Group outshined others across various sectors. Dangote Cement Plc, for instance, the biggest company (by market capitalization), emerging as most profitable with its net profit of N204.25bn within the industrial goods sector, as well as the entire market. Furthermore, for the overall profitable company Award prize went to Dangote Cement which had emerged best in its sector with its N177.61bn, and Guaranty Trust Bank which was second in its sector after reported N170.67bn profit. Still with Dangote Cement showed not just about being biggest or most profitable, it emerged most efficient stock in its sector with 25.35% Net Profit Margin (measured by how much of each Naira of revenue is converted to net profit by dividing net profit by turnover and multiplying it by 100). Diamond Bank won the award for the stock with best Price/Book Value both in its sector and the entire market; while Total Nigeria was best in Return on Investment for market-wide; while MRS Oil won in the Earnings Yield category. In the consumer goods sector, Dangote Sugar Refinery, another member of the Dangote Group emerged most profitable with N39.78bn; followed by Nestle Nigeria’s N33.72bn. While, Nestle Nigeria plc won the prize for best RoI in its consumer goods sector, as well as the entire market for the period. In the insurance sector, showed some surprises, the prizes were a straight battle between Custodian & Allied and NEM, which clinched two awards each, leaving AIICO with just one. Custodian was most profitable with N7.31bn, followed by NEM; which emerged most efficient at 20.7%; as well as the best RoI of 28.5%; leaving Custodian with best Earnings Yield; while AIICO followed, and then emerged with best P/BV. In the banking sector, Ecobank Transnational Incorporated was awarded the first with total assets of N6.86tr; ahead of Zenith Bank’s N5.59tr; and FBN Holdings, N5.24tr; while GTBank emerged most efficient stock with 40.66% NPM; followed by Zenith Bank’s 23.83%; and Stanbic IBTC, 22.77% respectively. GTBank however came tops in RoI; trailed by Stanbic IBTC behind. The prize for best Earnings Yield went to Fidelity Bank, which posted 25.23%; trailed by ETI with 20.24%; and FCMB, 19.97%. Diamond Bank recorded the best P/BV of 0.21; ahead of FCMB’s 0.25 and Fidelity, 0.37; in what seem as surprises, Wema Bank emerged best with lowest NPL ratio of 3.89%; beating Zenith Bank’s 4.7% and Access Bank’s 4.96% to second and third respectively. In the oil and gas sector, the Seplat Petroleum Development Company clinched the award prize in the oil and gas sector with NPM of 58.66% while MRS Oil emerged best in Earnings Yield and P/B Value; with Sir Sunny Nwosu, a director and shareholder activist receiving both awards on behalf of the company. Besides corporate awards, all past Presidents of CAMCAN was honour, including late Gbenga Agbana whose wife received his posthumous award on behave. Other Awardees are: past Directors-General of the Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC), Dr. Suleyman Ndanusa and Musa Al-Faki; as well as Apostle Hayford Ikponmwosa Alile, former DG of the NSE; as well as his successor, Prof (Mrs.) Ndi Okereke-Onyiuke. Receiving the awards, on behave of Ndanusa and (Prof) Mrs Okekeke-Onyiuke appreciated CAMCAN for the recognition and for remembering their contributions in the past worth of honour and those who served the Nigerian capital market meritoriously, contributing to making it what it has become today. Also acknowledged at the event were the NSE and FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange for their contribution to the development of the Nigerian Capital Market. In the individual awards category, CAMCAN acknowledged the contributions of Mr. Tony Elumelu, Chairman of Heirs Holdings Limited, a major investor in UBA Plc; Transnational Corporation of Nigeria (Transcorp); United Capital Plc and African Prudential, all listed on the NSE. His award prize was received at the occasion by Mr. Valentine Ozigbo, MD/CEO of Transcorp Hotels Plc; and Mrs. Owen Omogiafo, Executive Director at Transcorp Plc respectively. Also, the UBA Plc was also recognized for living true to its name by taking and hoisting the Nigerian flag in 20 countries across the African continent, thereby diversifying its earnings and profit base, among others. The bank was represented by Ugo Nwagodoh, Group Chief Finance Officer and Abiola Razak and the Head, Investors’ Relation. 