The issue of fake news and its resultant effect on brands especially its direct impact on productivity and resultant effect on employment and the economy at large continues to be in the fore front of public discuss. It is as a result of its very real debilitating effect on the continued growth of brands in specific that front line Media and marketing consultancy Firm Katunga media have put together the second in its bi –annual capacity engagement sessions for Journalists and other stakeholders to discuss very comprehensively the issue with a view to seeking lasting solutions to these malaise. The event which is scheduled to hold on October 12, at the Leola Hotel, Former Leadway Protea Hotel, Maryand Lagos will attract stakeholders in the Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) sector. According to Edgar Joseph who is the Executive Vice Chairman of Katunga Media, the need for Brand Custodians to seek very credible and sustainable response to this malaise cannot be over emphasised, as a result of the critical damage it fosters on brand reputations which in most cases leads to the erosion of market share. It is in this regard, that Katunda Media in partnership with Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria (BJAN) and with support from the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations have pulled together some of the most influential industry experts to take a robust look at the issue with the aim of providing a discerning road map towards seeking a lasting solution. The session with a working theme- ‘Ensuring Effective Brand Protection and Projection in the era of Fake News will have Mrs Folake Ani Mumuney the Group Head Corporate Communications at First bank who will be ably represented by Yinka Ijabiyi who heads Brand Management of the Bank will speak on: ‘identifying the specific impacts of Fake news on Brands’. Mr Ikechi Odigbo the Group Managing Director at DDB Lagos and the President of the Association of Advertising Practitioners of Nigeria(AAPN) will be speaking on ‘Fake News and its effect on Brand Value, the role of brand custodians and Brand reporters.’ A distinguished panel of discussants made up of industry professionals and representatives from the Media both online and traditional including, Mr. Diran Olojo of FCMB, Mary Ikoku, Bose Oke, Emeka Opara of Airtel, Sam Ibemere Editor in Chief Ripples Nigeria, Osagie Alonge Pulse Nigeria to mention a few have been put in place to ensure a robust engagement. Charles Aigbe of Fidelity bank would be giving the opening remarks. Mr. Goddie offose, the President of the Brand Journalists Association of Nigeria in his own contribution stated that his Association have watched very closely at the erosion of credibility in news reportage by these rogue reports and its resultant additional challenges Brand Custodians are made to face as they struggle to protect their brands within a very harsh operating climate, hence the decision to team up with Katunga on this session.