The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the Consumer Protection Council (CPC), yesterday in Abuja, inaugurated a joint investigative committee for consumer issues in the telecommunications industry. The inauguration was held at the NCC headquarters in Abuja. A statement by both bodies at the end of the inauguration, said the collaboration will ensure regulatory clarity and eliminate possible multiple regulatory approaches to similar issues.  This, they contend, is consistent and complimentary to the Federal Government’s commitment to “Ease of Doing Business” and the Economic Recovery and growth Plan (ERGP), which prioritises people and firm but clear regulation that protects citizen, and promotes business and investment. The joint inquiry, the statement read, which is also in further partnership with relevant security agencies, is in part on account of incessant and continuing dissatisfaction and complaints by consumers.  Besides, it is also partly in response to a resolution of the Senate of the National Assembly requiring investigation and remedial measures of vital service issues and grievances by consumers.  Both NCC and CPC intend to keep abreast of this important issue to ensure enhanced operations and customer satisfaction. Explaining the scope of the work of the joint investigative committee, the statement said it essentially includes service quality, service issues such as call masking, unsolicited subscriptions, difficulty with unsubscribing to billed value added services, and transparency in billing. This is with respect to clarity, data roll over, disclosures about real consumption, deductions for value added services and other key telecommunications services. “The expected outcomes are better services, more transparent charges and increased customer service responsiveness by telecommunications operators.  NCC and CPC have assembled a team of skilled operatives to discharge this assignment and look forward to the cooperation of consumers, operators and other stakeholders, particularly with providing information as may be, and when necessary that could be relevant to the subjects of the inquiry,” the statement read.