The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele; Chairman, UBA, Heirs Holdings and Transcorp, Mr. Tony Elumelu and International Monetary Fund (IMF) Country Chief, Mr. Amine Mati  are among the dignitaries who have confirmed their attendance at  the 2018 Financial Markets Conference of the Financial Markets Dealers Association (FMDA). The event scheduled to hold at the prestigious Eko Hotels and Suites, Adetokunbo Ademola Street, Victoria Island, Lagos on Friday, September 21, 2018 will focus on the theme:  “The Nigerian Financial Market – A Catalyst for Sustainable Economic Growth”. The Conference sub-themes are: The Role of the Financial Markets In Unlocking Capital Flows to the Real Sector – Spotlight on SMEs and Agriculture Sector and Balancing Monetary Policy, Portfolio Investment, Foreign Direct Investments and FX Targeting with Mr. Tony Elumelu and Mr. Amine Mati as Lead Speakers respectively. In a statement, the Acting Executive Secretary (FMDA), Mrs. Mary Gbegbaje noted that the opening remarks at the event will be delivered by the FMDA President, Mr. Samuel Ocheho, while Mr. Peter Bamkole, Director, Enterprise Development Centre, Pan-Atlantic University and Mr. Phumelele Mbiyo – Head, Macro Economic Research, Africa, Standard Bank, will moderate the two sessions respectively. Mrs. Gbegbaje said the programme which commences by 2pm  is an opportunity for the Financial Market participants, Regulators, Investors, Corporates and other stakeholders to discuss ways of using Financial Market to facilitate Economic Development through entrepreneurship and job creation for the people. She said the CBN boss, Mr. Emefiele will be the Keynote Speaker while other renowned panelists will also contribute to make the event remarkable among whom are Ms. Yewande Sadiku, Executive Secretary, Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC); Ms. Ndidi Okonkwo Nwuneli, Co-Founder of AACE Food Processing and Distribution Ltd; Mr. Andrew Alli – Ex President, African Finance Corporation (AFC); Dr. Yemi Kale – Statistician General and DG of the National Bureau of Statistics and Mr. Steven Bailey-Smith, Senior Economist/Investment Strategist, Global Evolution. The Financial Markets Dealers Association of Nigeria is an Association of licensed Money Deposit Banks (DMBs) operating within the Nigeria Financial market, emphasizing on regulatory policy engagement/advocacy and professional ethics in the financial markets.