…. Graduate 438 Youths  in Skill AcquisitionSam Daibo, Area Manager PGPA Field Operations inspecting some of the starter kits.438 Itsekiri youths from twenty-three communities around NNPC/Chevron Nigeria Limited Joint Venture Operational areas, on September 6, 2018, graduated from a skill acquisition programme implemented by the NNPC/CNL JV-sponsored Itsekiri Regional Development Committee (IRDC). Chevron’s G.M Policy Government and Public Affairs, Esimaje Brikinn, at the occasion,  noted that the skill acquisition program is in alignment with the Target 8 of the SDGs Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) which says that nations should promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. He explained that the NNPC/JV was happy to have partnered with the IRDC on the program because of its potential for getting youths gainfully employed. Esimaje Brikinn, who was represented by Sam Daibo, Area Manager, PGPA Field Operation,  expressed his delight with the programme. He noted that the programme, coming after several years of inaction due to internal issues by the IRDC was a delight to the NNPC/CNL Joint Venture.  “We are very delighted that after a long period of inaction, the IRDC is back, vibrant and united, ready to add value to people’s lives in the member communities,” he added. Esimaje Brikinn further  affirmed that “CNL takes its role as a corporate citizen in Nigeria seriously and continues to demonstrate its commitment to responsible corporate citizenship through social investment programs that promote health, education and economic development in communities around our operational areas and beyond,” In his speech at the Occasion, the Chairman of the IRDC, Ambassador Austine Oniyesan thanked Chevron for contributing to the physical development of the communities and empowerment of the IRDC indigenes. He lauded the collaboration between the Community leaders, Chevron and the Delta state government and  charged the graduates to make good use of the skills they have acquired and the starter packs, and strongly advised them against selling them.Sam Daibo, Area Manager PGPA Field Operations inspecting some of the starter kits.He promised to lead the IRDC to a greater height and enjoined community stakeholders to follow the path of peace for the benefit of all. Stressing that more beneficial projects were being considered for implementation. “Please allow me to thank Chevron Nigeria Limited for their support and also my fellow board Members for their commitment to the growth and development of our communities,” he added. “The IRDC will focus on massive job creation in the rural communities through sustainable mega projects. We will continue to make significant progress by transforming the IRDC with vision, passion and energy to make relevant sustainable development in the member communities,”  he promised. The highlight of the occasion was the presentation of starter packs and certificates to the graduating trainees. Items given included: Sewing machines; Gas cooker/ovens with cylinder bottles; Hair dressing dryers and makeover boxes; Interlocking stones’ molds, shovels and trowels; Welding machines, grinding machines, power drills; Electrical and instrumentation boxes and Desktop computers and accessories.Sam Daibo, Area Manager PGPA Field Operations inspecting some of the starter kits.Some of the Graduates showcased some of their products and skills  like dresses, make ups skills and others. They expressed their appreciation to the IRDC and Chevron while looking forward to even more support in the future. According to them, the Skill Acquisition training is a good development and they are optimistic that the IRDC would do even more things for member communities. Esimaje concluded by charging all present to support the IRDC. The GMoU remains a very viable catalyst for community development and we enjoin everybody to support the IRDC to enable it focus on its core duty which is community development.”