The grand finale of this year’s Nigerian Breweries Golden Pen Awards, which comes up on Friday, September 28, 2018promises to be grand indeed, going by the level of readiness of the organisers.  As the 10th edition of the awards, Nigerian Breweries Plc has assured that guests would witness an epoch event with the entire befitting flourish at the Civic Centre, Lagos.  The company’s Corporate Affairs Adviser, KufreEkanem said he ishappy that the Golden Pen Awards has greatly impacted on the Nigerian media in the discharge of their role in the socio-economic development of Nigeria.  “Looking back over the last nine editions, we are happy that the initiative has continued to help in uplifting the standards of journalism in Nigeria going by the quality of entries we receive every year as attested to by our independent panel of judges and stakeholders in the Nigerian media who have been part of the awards over the years,” he said.  Since inception, the award has produced nine grand prize winners in the “Journalist of the Year” category, six grand prize winners in the “Photo Journalist of the Year” category and four others in the “Report of the Year” category. It has also produced several runners up in the three categories.  For this 10th edition of the award, the Nigerian Breweries Golden Pen Reporter of the Year will win a cash prize of N2 million plus a premium gift item; the first runner-up will receive N1 million, while the second runner-up will go home with N750,000. In the Photojournalist category, the overall winner will receive N1 million plus a quality gift item, while the first and second runners-up will have N750,000 and N500,000 respectively. The winner of the Nigerian Breweries Golden Pen Report of the Year will receive N1 million and a gift item.  The Nigerian Breweries Golden Pen Awards was inaugurated in 2008 to promote professionalism and objective reportage of events in Nigeria. It is also meant to reward journalists who abide by the fine ethics of the profession.  Nigerian Breweries Golden Pen Awards is one of the numerous corporate social responsibility initiatives of the company, which is reputed for supporting national developmental aspirations of the country in line with its “Winning with Nigeria” philosophy.