……As Baru restates commitment to grow LPG market Engr. (Mrs.) OluMaduka, President, Nigerian Academy of Engineering  receiving copies of some NNPC In-House publications  from Dr. Maikanti Baru, Group Managing Director of the Corporation during the visit to the GMD in Abuja   The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is to collaborate with the Nigerian academy of Engineers to raise the standard of Engineering and Technology in the country. Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru, who disclosed this while receiving members of the Nigerian Academy of Engineers who paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja noted that the corporation had a record of supporting the development of engineering and technology in the country through its various corporate social responsibility programmes like the annual national quiz competition for science students in the country. Dr. Baru noted that the corporation had also collaborated with the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited, committed two million dollars each to the provision of science and laboratories in six universities spread across all the geopolitical zones in the country. Speaking earlier, president of the Academy, who was also a former member of NNPC Board, Engr. (Mrs) Olu Maduka, said the standard of engineering in the country was falling and the trend must be arrested, saying only an organization like the NNPC with its track record of support to the development of science and Engineering technology could spearhead its revival. Also speaking at the event, former Vice Chancellor, Federal University of Technology, Yola, and a member of the Academy, Professor Salihu Mustapha, said there was an urgent need to link research, academic and industry, while expressing optimizing that NNPC remains one of the corporate bodies that could provide the needed support in that regard. The Nigerian Academy Of science was established in 1997 and membership is open to professionals who are sixty years and above. Meanwhile, the Group Managing Director of the NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru, has restated his commitment to the growth of Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) market in Nigeria. Speaking while receiving members of the Liquefied Petroleum Gas Association in his office today, Dr. Baru said he was looking forward to seeing that all domestic cooking in Nigeria were carried out using LPG. He tasked the association on public enlightenment of Nigerians on the advantages of switching to LPG in all their domestic cooking. Speaking earlier, president of the Association, Alhaji Nuhu Yakubu, commended the GMD on his vision and support while assuring that his association would help raise awareness on the advantages of using LPG over other means of cooking.