 The National Universities Commission has approved the request by the Architects Registration Council of Nigeria to upgrade the study of architecture from departmental to faculty. The Executive Secretary, NUC, Prof. Abdulrasheed Abubakar, who stated this at the annual colloquium organised by ARCON in Abuja, said the new policy would become operational in few months. Abubakar, who was represented by the Acting Director, Department of Students Support Services, NUC, Dr. Mariam Salle, stated that the commission would soon hold a one-day retreat with all academic and practicing architects towards implementing the new policy, after which a directive would be sent to the universities for immediate implementation. According to him, ARCON’s request was a good one, hence the approval, which will take the profession of architecture to the next level. “The graduate of that course will be better off.  The study of architecture will definitely be better off with this. It is a positive development for Nigerian students studying architecture,” he stated. The NUC also urged leaders of the profession to embrace the approval and work towards improving the delivery of the curriculum. The ARCON President, UmaruAliyu, said the approval had brought a great excitement as the council had been on the issue since 2012. He stated that by the new policy, more architects would be trained. “Now that study of architecture study has been upgraded to faculty level, it means that more prospective students will be admitted and that will clearly lead to increased number of architects in Nigeria,” Aliyu added. He said the council realised that the country was short of architects and needed about 18,000 to serve the populace. In order to improve the situation, ARCON and members of the Nigerian Institute of Architects, both in the public and private sectors, were sensitised and reached an accord to support the initiative, he added. The Registrar, ARCON, Umar Murnai, who thanked the NUC for acceding to the council’s request, said architecture in the country would no longer remain the same. According to him, ARCON has worked hard to get to this point and will not relent but ensure the smooth implementation of the new policy. The President, NIA, AdibeNjoku, stated that members of the institute were part of the initiative. He added that the new policy would go a long way to impact positively on the quality of architecture, the built environment and the nation, as the issue of quackery would be effectively tackled.