……no financial package can adequately compensate for the untimely death of a breadwinner SIFAX Group has paid financial compensation to the family of Mr. ThankGod Ojomah, who died as a result of an accident involving one of the company’s haulage trucks. The wife of the deceased, Mrs. Edna Nathaniel-Ojomah, his immediate younger brother, Jonah Ojomah, officials of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) and SIFAX Group attended the event. Dr. Fola Rogers–Saliu, Executive Director, HR & Admin, SIFAX Group, commiserated with the family over the loss, adding that no financial package can adequately compensate for the untimely death of a breadwinner. She prayed for the repose of the deceased’s soul while further charging the wife to judiciously invest the money for the benefit of her children. She said: “We are deeply saddened by the death of the deceased. Our boss, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi was very shocked when the news was broken to him. He gave us the mandate to provide support and succor to the family. That’s why we were able to support the family financially during the burial and today, we are paying compensation. “This compensation is not for the life lost because no amount of money, no matter how huge, can pay for life. It’s a way of supporting the dependants of the deceased.” Rogers-Saliu, who represented Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, said the company would also explore any feasible means of providing more support for the family. On his part, the President, Dockworkers branch of the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN). Mr. Tajudeen Ohize, lauded SIFAX Group for its maturity and concern during the negotiation with the union. He noted that the union led the negotiation with SIFAX Group due to its commitment to the welfare of all its members, including the families of the departed ones. After receiving the payment, Mrs. Edna Nathaniel-Ojonah thanked the management of SIFAX Group and praised the commitment of the workers union for coming to their aid after her husband’s demise. She promised to use the compensation very well in order to secure the future of her children.