Dr. Frank Udemba Jacobs, President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) during the MAN Annual Media Luncheon Held on January 24th, 2018 at MAN House, Ikeja, Lagos stated that the quest for increase in the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) by the Regulatory Agencies may put pressure on the manufacturing sector. Jacobs pointed out that it may interest you to know that last year, the Association, in its usual practice, engaged Government at all levels, including Ministries, Departments and Agencies on a number of issues affecting the manufacturing sector in particular and the Nigerian economy in general.  A number of those issues were resolved, while others are currently being addressed. In broad terms, the Association recorded remarkable advocacy successes, some of which are highlighted below: The Association, as part of the enlarged Organized Private Sector, successfully sustained the quarterly meeting with the Presidency.  On many occasions during the year, the leadership of the Association met the Acting President/Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo then, Ministers and other top Government functionaries, where the challenges of our members were presented to elicit solutions.   Our deliberations with the Government, especially at the quarterly meetings, contributed immensely to recent positive policy measures of the Government, some of which are already yielding results. Secondly, significant improvement in Foreign Exchange (Forex) management policies of the Central Bank of Nigeria, which did not only improve forex supply but also made allocation to the sector a priority, at that time, was as a result of our sustained engagement with the Central Bank Governor. Furthermore, our robust engagement with the Management of the Central Bank of Nigeria also led to the review of the list of 41 items not valid for official forex allocation. In the process some items earlier excluded were restored for forex allocation. We are still exerting pressure on the relevant agencies to ensure that all raw materials that were erroneously included in the exclusion list are restored. Jacobs stated that as in the previous years, we will sustain the advocacy against the signing of the ECOWAS-EU Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) by Nigeria. Our advocacy, he disclosed, further helped to facilitate the resuscitation of Export Expansion Grant (EEG) and the modification of the same to include transferability of the Negotiable Export Credit Certificate (NECC) which can now be used for settlement of all Federal Government taxes such as Company Income Tax, VAT, WHT, etc. It is important to mention that MAN will continue to add to the advocacy issues it will pursue this year. Some of these have been identified and are listed below: “Ensuring that the remaining raw materials excluded from the official forex window are restored; “Maintain the advocacy against the admission of Morocco to the membership of ECOWAS due to perceived negative implications of this to the economy of Nigeria; “Ensure greater improvement in the business operating environment, including abolition of multiple taxation and its unorthodox mode of collection by the three tiers of Government; “Enactment of relevant manufacturing-friendly laws and abrogation of adverse and obsolete business related legislations; “Encourage the sustenance of the campaign for patronage of Made-in-Nigeria products and advocate for sector-specific incentives for national economic development. “The above would be easier to achieve with your continued support and cooperation. Please be assured that we will remain resolute in advocating for a more conducive operating environment for manufacturers in Nigeria. 