 An ad hoc committee of the House of Representatives has summoned the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, and the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, to explain the Federal Government’s bid to spend $ 1.8bn on the turnaround maintenance of the country’s four refineries. The committee, which is chaired by a member of the All Progressives Congress from Kaduna State, Mr. Garba Datti-Muhammad, has been mandated by the House to investigate why the refineries have failed to work despite gulping huge sums on TAM over the years. The Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Dr. Maikanti Baru; and the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, are on the list. The document also includes the names of the Executive Secretary, Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency; National President, Nigerian Society of Engineers; National President, Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria; Executive Secretary, Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association of Nigeria; President, Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria; and President, Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers. Firms with a background in building refineries and licensed regular and modular refiners have also been invited by the committee. On the list are Snamproghetti (Saipem), Chiyoda Nigeria Limited, JGC Nigeria Limited and Dangote Refinery. The country’s refineries, which are located in Port Harcourt, Kaduna and Warri, have largely been unable to refine crude oil for domestic consumption and possible exportation of finished products. The NNPC takes 445,000 barrels of crude daily for the purpose of refining for domestic consumption, but the country depends almost 100 per cent on importation for its fuel energy needs. It will be recalled that a House resolution in November 2017 had directed the NNPC to stop the fresh TAM pending the outcome of the probe. The resolution had noted that the four refineries had already gulped more than $20bn on TAM but without appreciable improvement in performance to justify the expenditure.