 Indigenous rice producers have charged the Federal Government to confront the Republics of Benin, Niger and Cameroon over smuggling of rice from their countries into Nigeria. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, on Monday declared that smuggled rice from Thailand and India came into Nigeria through the country’s borders with Benin, Niger and Cameroon. Speaking at a joint press briefing in Abuja on Thursday to announce the forthcoming 2018 Rice Conference that would hold in the Federal Capital Territory next week, local producers of the crop said it was high time that the Federal Government declared economic war against countries sabotaging Nigerian business. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Agro Nigeria, a body of indigenous agro-dealers, Richard-Mark Mbaram, said the progress being recorded in the production of rice within the country was being threatened by the smuggling of the commodity via countries sharing borders with Nigeria. He said, “Yes, there has been progress thus far in rice production in Nigeria. However, we have serious systemic challenges facing this effort; and number one is smuggling. We know what the countries around us are up to. The figures they have for rice coming into their countries are more than the population which some of them even have. “Countries that share borders with us are stockpiling rice which they try to smuggle into Nigeria. So, Nigeria needs to take definite and radical measures. There’s no point playing big brother on issues like this anymore. It is about our life as a nation. It is about the business of our citizens. “These are corporate entities and if their businesses are challenged and threatened by this, then we have a problem as a nation. So, let’s get radical. If we have to take on these countries directly, I don’t see anything wrong in it. We have to confront Benin Republic and read the riot act to them that we feel they are undertaking inimical measures against our economy.” Stakeholders in the rice value chain such as Stallion Group, Notore, Afex, Umza, Olam and the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria said the government must show enough concern about the issue to raise investors’ hope. Mbaram, who spoke on behalf of the stakeholders, said, “This radical type of confrontation is what you need in order to put the conversation on the front burner. If at the level of ECOWAS this issue has to be raised, so be it. If at the level of the AU we need to start engaging each other on this concern, so be it. But it mustn’t be under the table. We are threatened here. It is war. “Let’s begin to see clear measures on the part of government to show that it is concerned in a radical manner. Again, you want to look at those issues that make smuggling attractive. You also look at incentives to give from a fiscal and regulatory perspective that will discourage players in that space and make them turn to more noble acts.” He further noted that in order to ensure sustainability, private investors must play a significant part in the country’s rice production drive. Mbaram said, “It is obvious that there has been progress in rice production in Nigeria. But we feel that in order to ensure that this is sustainable progress, the private sector needs to be galvanised and mainstreamed into the play. Presently, what we have is a public sector intensive drive, and as much as we commend this, we know that without the private sector’s participation, sustainability is really not assured.” Also speaking on the success recorded in rice production in Nigeria, the Senior Manager, Sales, Stallion Group of Companies, Bala Sule, said his firm’s rice mill in Kano, which used to get about 20,000 metric tonnes of rice paddy a few years ago, had moved to about 100,000MT of the commodity. He said, “When we started the production of rice, which was actually when the ban on importation commenced, we hardly got rice paddy from farmers. For instance, my company’s rice mill in Kano, which is about the largest in the country, has capacity of 150,000 metric tonnes per annum. But hardly do we get 20,000MT then. “We now devised a means by working with rice farmers. We identified farmers in some states such as Kebbi, Sokoto, Zamfara, Jigawa and Kano where rice is predominantly produced so that they can produce paddy for us. We gave them improved seeds, fertilisers and the required technical know-how. “And we told them that we would buy the paddy from them at the prevailing market price. Right now as I’m speaking with you, we get at least 100,000MT of paddy rice for processing at our mill in Kano, which like I said earlier, has a capacity of 150,000MT. So, you can see the jump from about 20,000MT to about 100,000MT.”