For its excellent service delivery and customer satisfaction, SIFAX Haulage was awarded with the Haulage Company of the year Award at the 6th edition of the Nigerian Transport Awards held yesterday at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja. Mr. Ladi Lawanson, Honourable Commissioner of Transportation, Lagos State, presented the award to the SIFAX Haulage.  L-R: Ladi Lawanson, Honourable Commissioner of Transportation, Lagos State; Adewale Adetayo, General Manager SIFAX Haulage; Kayode Alatishe, Operations Manager, SIFAX Haulage and Oluchi Udojindu, Assistant Manager Human Resources and Administration, SIFAX Haulage during the presentation of Haulage Company of the Year Award to SIFAX Haulage and Logistics Company at the 6th edition of the Nigerian Transport Awards held at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos, yesterday  SIFAX Haulage & Logistics Limited prides itself as one of the leading haulage companies in the West African sub-region. Over the years, it has expanded its capacity to deliver goods anywhere across West Africa. The key objective of the company is to satisfy the customer by providing a timely and cost-effective service. The company operates a large fleet of functional trucks equipped with relevant cargo security devices, communications and tracking systems to monitor cargo movement on transit. Despite our security and safety measures, we deploy valid Goods-in-Transit insurance for all categories of cargo to completely secure the goods of our clients. Today, we have achieved door to door delivery, as we provide total cargo delivery solution in the chain of international freight forwarding and Customs clearance. Our personnel are trained to monitor customers’ consignments at all levels and stages on transit for safe arrival of the goods. This way, we save time, reduce cost and unnecessary anxiety from clients. We are a multi-modal transport operator, diverse warehousing operator and fleet owner based in Nigeria and with branch offices in other parts of the world. We deliver clients’ cargo when and where they need it and our services are customized to each client’s needs and specifications at competitive prices. We employ modern, advanced Information and Communications Technology systems and ensure that clear tracks of our multi-modal logistics chain are followed via our tracking system. The on-line access for our customers is 95% ready.