 The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, has said the Federal Government will establish oil and gas parks in other parts of the country where crude oil has either been found or is being explored. Kachikwu, according to a statement by the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board on Sunday, stated this on Friday at the ground-breaking of the Nigerian Oil and Gas Park being developed by the NCDMB at Emeyal-1, Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. He said, “We will work with the board and provide everything that is needed for the projects. After the development of the five pilot parks in the Niger Delta states, we will extend this very innovative idea to other parts of Nigeria, where oil has either been found or is being explored. “This initiative will send a message to investors that Bayelsa is ready for oil and gas business and drive home the point that the park will bring about localisation of indigenous companies, where fabrication, pipe milling, procurement hubs and oil and gas-related technologies will flourish.” According to the statement, the park will generate about 2,000 jobs when it begins full operation and create a regional low-cost manufacturing hub that will produce equipment components and spare parts to be utilised in the nation’s oil and gas industry. The NCDMB is working to establish oil and gas parks in five oil-producing states, namely, Cross River, Bayelsa, Imo, Akwa Ibom and Delta. The Bayelsa project is the second to take off, as that of Cross River commenced early last month, according to the statement. The Executive Secretary, NCDMB, Mr. Simbi Wabote, in his welcome address, stated, “The park occupies a total land mass of about 25 hectares, which will comprise various warehouses, manufacturing shop floors and factories, training centre, hostels, administrative block, mini estate, security posts, fire station and truck parking and holding areas.” He said the park would be provided with uninterrupted power supply, adding, “This project will positively impact Bayelsa State in general and Emeyal community and its environs in particular. Citizens of the host community and environs will also benefit from on-the-job training opportunities.”