Nestlé Nigeria has introduced its new breakfast cereal, GOLDEN MORN® Puffs. Made from grains and cereals, it provides families with even more choices of tastier, healthier food. GOLDEN MORN® Puffs is proudly produced in Nigeria for Nigerians. It is fortified with vitamins and iron to contribute to the efforts to address micronutrient deficiency in the country. Micronutrient deficiency is the lack of essential vitamins and minerals required in small amounts by the body for proper growth and development. According to WHO, 2 billion people in the world are affected by iron deficiency, which is the most common micronutrient disorder in sub-Saharan Africa. The major health consequences of deficiency in essential micronutrients include impaired physical and cognitive development, which translates to reduced performance of school-aged children among others. It is important to note that annually, Nigeria loses over US$1.5 billion in GDP directly and indirectly to vitamin and mineral deficiencies. At the product presentation to media executives at a breakfast meeting with Nestlé Nigeria, Mr. Aboubacar Coulibaly, Category Manager, Dairy, said that NESTLÉ GOLDEN MORN® Puffs, a breakfast cereal made from maize, millet, oats and soya, is fortified with GRAINSMART® – a unique combination of vitamins and iron. “Food fortification is a strategy that Nestlé has adopted to help address the burden of micro-nutrient deficiency. With 50% of our portfolio already fortified with micronutrients, the introduction of Golden Morn Puffs breakfast cereal today is another step towards the fulfillment of our commitment to provide healthier, delicious food choices for all age groups, a journey we have been on for the past 57 years in Nigeria.” He went on to disclose that 94% of the grains and cereals used in the production of Golden Morn Puffs is sourced locally. “We are very happy to announce to you today that the work we have been doing with local farmers for the past 7 years on capacity building and grain quality improvement is yielding results. 94% of the agricultural raw materials for the product we are launching today, Golden Morn Puffs was supplied by Nigerian farmers.” Nestlé Nigeria continues to invest in the development of nutrient rich delicious food to fulfil its purpose, which is enhancing quality of life and contributing to a healthier future. About Nestlé Nigeria: Nestlé Nigeria Plc began simple trading operations in Nigeria in 1961 and has today grown into a leading food manufacturing and marketing company. Nestlé Nigeria is the biggest food company in West Africa. Nestlé Nigeria employs around 2,400 people and has 3 world class factories. Nestlé Nigeria manufactures and markets a range of high quality brands including NESTLÉ PURE LIFE, GOLDEN MORN, MILO, KITKAT, MAGGI, and NESCAFÉ.