 During the recent Commonwealth Business Forum which was part of the events at the Commonwealth Heads of State Meeting (CHOGM) held in London, President Mohammadu Buhari disclosed that the Shell Group is preparing to invest $15bn in Nigeria. The president also canvassed for a healthier business relationship among Commonwealth nations. In Buhari’s Words: “Before I came here the Shell group came and saw me; they are preparing to invest $15bn in Nigeria. They came and broke the news to me.” In President keynote address at the Forum, the he said the Commonwealth nations “must avoid trade wars and work collectively to preserve the global trading order”. He also urges member-countries must support regional initiatives and domestic structural reforms that focus on the priorities of individual countries. The Nigerian president identified trade and investment facilitation to generate resources for sustainable development; ease of doing business and regional integration that expands markets with safeguards against injurious trade practices from third parties; more inclusive growth with the empowerment of women and the youths as factors that are capable of making business among Commonwealth countries easier. According to statement excerpt from the company’s website indicated that “Shell Companies in Nigeria continue to strengthen their position in the country for the long term by optimising their onshore oil footprint while making investments in other areas, particularly deep water and the gas value chain, including domestic gas. Natural gas is the cleanest burning fossil fuel and is abundantly available in Nigeria. Shell Companies in Nigeria are working with the Federal Government of Nigeria and other partners on domestic gas opportunities both onshore and in shallow water and advancing Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) for export.” Reacting to Shell investment in Nigeria, Ben Van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer of Shell Group who led the company’s team to see the president in London believed that the fund will boost trade and expand the country’s economy. On his part, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu stated that Shell’s investment will add value and a meliorate the country’s oil sector. It will be recalled that Shell which has been producing oil in Nigeria for over six decades first discovered oil in Nigeria in 1956 at Oloibiri in Bayelsa State. The multinational has also engaged in numerous corporate social responsibility activities in the country. However, stakeholders were of the view that this new initiative will enhance the oil industry in Nigeria if the potential is well utilized.