  Road transportation in West Africa is very important, the major reason for this is the fact that just one passport is required to travel in all west African countries: the ECOWAS passport; if you have this Passport you don’t have to travel by air, you may go wherever you want in West Africa by road. A lot of people are beginning to take advantage of this opportunity; hence, the need for effective road transportation companies. In this series we’ll be review major road transportation companies in Nigeria and West Africa; we’ll try to review how they perform using the criteria below: Management, Customer Care, Technology, Terminals, Booking Fares This part one of the article observes ABC Transport, let us see how they perform using the above listed criteria  Management ABC transport is jointly owned by Rapido Ventures and Capital Alliance Private Equity (CAPE), they have been operating since 1993 making 25 years this year. The management has been responsible for running a modern road transportation system in Nigeria and West Africa. Their buses have a corporate trademark: The Reindeer, an animal known for strength, speed and movement in herds.  Their board of directors consists of 6 members; they also have an 8 member management team. ABC transport has won several awards and recognition with the latest being The Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport (CITL) Pioneer Luxury Bust Operator on the International (West Coast, Africa) Route. They have the ABC Cargo Express Service, ABC Sprinter Service, ABC City Transit Inn, Coach West Africa. Customer Care: The best way to know if a company is caring for its customers is to hear directly from the customers who have actually patronized them, so see what ABC Transport Customers have to say bellow: “ABC has remained consistent despite challenges of running a business in Nigeria”
ISAH MUR ISMAIL “The ABC Coach West Africa is really the king of the road. But (I suggest) the company should have more buses (to enable) it travel many more places in Nigeria”
WALE MANTEY “…I always make it home safely with ABC Transport. I humbly suggest that travellers be served food (in all services) no matter the quantity instead of the juice and snacks which do not go well with every one. There are diabetics on board”
KEMMY JACOBS “Our journey from Abuja to Lagos was wonderful. Some on-board comedy movies we watched made it possible. Thanks to ABC Transport”
Clinton Lumanze (Agege, Lagos) ” I heard over the telly that ABC Transport gave scholarship to 12 Nigerian University students. Am not surprised your company has always been a trail blazer”
Chinwe MManuwuba (Asokoro-Abuja)  Technology ABC Transport are doing very well when it comes to technology, they have a mobile app through which one can book online. The steps for ABC Transport Online Booking are quite simple, just follow the instruction on the app and you are done. Another technological advantage ABC has is their website; you can easily book for Buses, check available seats and choose the one you like right there online, you can check your fare and pay fees; you can basically do everything you would be going to their park to do on their website. Speed limiter: They have installed speed limiting devices on all their buses thereby reducing crashes; they also have a way of tracking their buses to know their exact location.  Terminals and fares: They have their terminals in almost all cities in Nigeria and major cities in West Africa. ABC Transport fare is among the most competitive in the industry, just choose your destination and you’ll see the price right beside the route. This is our review of ABC Transport, if you’re traveling within West Africa, you may want to consider ging with ABC Transport. The next part of this review will be on God is Good Motors also called GIGM.