Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Barr Hassan Bello  The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Barr Hassan Bello on Thursday called on the stakeholders to approach the Kaduna Inland Dry Port (KIDP)  with new mind of doing things and stressed the need for total commitment by relevant operators. Bello made the observation at a stakeholders meeting in Lagos on the benefits of Inland Dry Ports, noting that such synergy would complement and uplift Federal Government’s efforts, on the Ease of Doing Business. The KIDP has been designated as a port of origin and final destination by the Federal Government of Nigeria via the Kaduna Inland Dry Port Declaration Order of 2015; and it is equipped to handle container stacking , trucks park, drivers lounge, cargo handling equipment, warehouses, rail access, refrigerated containers, power source, offices, weigh bridge, warehouse security inspectors and Customs unit, among others. “If we do not work together, there is no how we can achieve the benefits of the IDP”, Bello stated, calling attention to the length of ground work already undertaken, before it was actually consummated by President Muhammadu Buhari.  “Over 10 years ago, we have been on the issue of the dry ports, including railways. “All efforts actually come to reality with the support of President Muhammadu Buhari who told the private sector to synergize to achieve effective dry port in the country. “We have been working with operators and the idea is to establish modern inland dry ports and the ease of doing business must be instituted in the ports,’’ he said. Speaking in the same vein, Mr. Tope Borishade, the Chairman Inland Container Ltd., also pleaded for stakeholders’ cooperation, highlighting his determination to succeed and achieve his mandate as a dry port operator. Borishade said that the KIDP would not compete with sea ports, but to collaborate to improve the ease of doing business. He said that Nigeria was already loosing cargo to neighbouring countries and promised that KIDP would improve government’s revenue by attracting more cargo into the country. The Port Manager, Inland Container Nig. Ltd., Mr. Rotimi Rahimi urged the Shippers’ Council to advise the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to deploy officers to the dry ports, pointing out the need for the Customs Service to secure the recognition of dry ports by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) its through inclusion in the list of ports of origin and destination on the Form ‘M’ e-platform. “The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) should develop invoice rating models for seaports and terminals as well as shipping companies that would encourage use of dry ports. “NPA should also engage seaport concessionaires to provide separate access for both inward and outward movement of dry port cargo.  “Shipping companies should operate through Bill of Lading from ports of Origin to ports of Destination to process shipping documents for import and export release at the dry ports. “Shipping companies must have their presence in Kaduna to provide shipping services to shippers, while the terminal operators should allow shipping companies to move cargo from the ports without hindrance. “The concessionaires should allow 30-day rent passage for dry port cargo and should also grant priority terminal access for trucks hauling dry port cargo,’’ Rahimi said. Musa Manniru of Enforcement Unit, Customs Zonal Headquarters, Lagos, said that the Customs management was working to ensure functional scanners at the ports for trade facilitation. Manniru said that the Customs would also assist government in collecting revenue by deploying efficient officers to the dry ports. Capt. Emmanuel Ebubeogu, the General Manager, Special Duties in NPA, said a dry port should be a transit area and should also include storage area. The capt also said that the railway system should be functioning effectively because the system must be centered on railways. He said that owners of goods would like to minimise profit and they must consider the importance of transportation as a derived demand in terms of time, safety and cost of landing. While the Managing Director, Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC), Mr Freeborn Okhiria said that all efforts must be geared toward improving cargo delivery  in other for Nigerian stakeholders to enjoy the benefits of the dry port. He expressed the commitment of the NRC to devote 24-hour cargo delivery service. Okhiria disclosed that the corporation would purchase container wagons before June to facilitate the smooth operations of the IDP, adding that the NRC would ensure that “exporters enjoy the services they pay for’’. Mike Jukwe, the Registrar, Council for Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN), urged shipping companies and other port operators not to deny shippers (exporters and importers) the documents issued by International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations (FIATA). He Promised cooperation on their own side for Inland Dry Ports to achieve the purpose. Engr Chidi Izuwah, the director of Infrastructure Concession  Regulatory Commission (ICRC) said the Public Private Partner (PPP) model would be adopted so that private sector will invest their money to provide infrastructure and then recover their money over a period of time. He said every good Inland Dry Port must have good connectivity between the Port and the IDPs Izuwah reminded the stakeholders that many of the existing IDPS are located near the rail lines. 