WELCOME ADDRESS PRESENTED BY DR. FRANK UDEMBA JACOBS, MON, PRESIDENT, MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF NIGERIA (MAN) AT THE MAN ANNUAL MEDIA LUNCHEON HELD ON JANUARY 24TH, 2018 AT MAN HOUSE, 77, OBAFEMI AWOLOWO WAY, IKEJA, LAGOS. Gentlemen of the Press, On behalf of the National Council of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), I am delighted to welcome you all to our 2018 Media Luncheon for Commerce and Industry Correspondents. Before I proceed further, I wish you a happy and successful new year. I hope you all enjoyed the yuletide season, despite the fuel scarcity. Let me start by appreciating every one of you for your support and cooperation over the years and for championing the cause of the manufacturing sector in your various media houses. You were very supportive in 2017; a year that was challenging for the sector. I believe that with greater collaboration this year, we shall overcome more of the challenges confronting the sector. The Annual Media Luncheon has, no doubt, become a platform for deepening the interaction between MAN and Journalists on the Industry and Business Desks of both Print and Electronic Media organizations in Nigeria. This partnership has been very beneficial to us and perhaps to you too, as we provide the essential ingredients for your work.  It is important, therefore, that we tighten the relationship Our advocacy activities and programmes media tracking for 2017 revealed that MAN received over 165 exposures both in electronic and print media. This is highly commendable, as it means that our activities received wider media coverage which, in no small measure, enhanced the visibility of the Association and contributed significantly to the positive advocacy achievements we recorded last year. Most gratifying is the wide reportage that the media bequeathed the Association’s Annual lecture, and its 45th Annual General Meeting held on September 13 -14, 2017 at the Lagos Oriental Hotel, as well as other advocacy activities up to December 2017. Gentlemen of the Press, you will recall that in 2017, MAN instituted the “MAN Reporter of the Year Award”, in appreciation of the contributions of the media as a critical stakeholder in our advocacy value chain. Some of you who distinguished yourselves in the coverage of MAN and manufacturing sector activities were beneficiaries. A new set of achievers would be recognised at today’s event. On our part, we would continue to ensure that this award is improved upon from time to time. As we appreciate the contributions of CICAN members to the development of the economy which fortunately has exited recession, MAN has prepared an analysis of the outlook of the economy in 2018, taking into consideration the performance of the economy in the previous year. Although this will be part of the documents that would be handed over to you later today, it is pertinent to give a little insight of it: Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, it may interest you to know that last year, the Association, in its usual practice, engaged Government at all levels, including Ministries, Departments and Agencies on a number of issues affecting the manufacturing sector in particular and the Nigerian economy in general.  A number of those issues were resolved, while others are currently being addressed. In broad terms, the Association recorded remarkable advocacy successes, some of which are highlighted below: The Association, as part of the enlarged Organized Private Sector, successfully sustained the quarterly meeting with the Presidency.  On many occasions during the year, the leadership of the Association met the Acting President/Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, Ministers and other top Government functionaries, where the challenges of our members were presented to elicit solutions.   Our deliberations with the Government, especially at the quarterly meetings, contributed immensely to recent positive policy measures of the Government, some of which are already yielding results. Secondly, significant improvement in Foreign Exchange (Forex) management policies of the Central Bank of Nigeria, which did not only improve forex supply but also made allocation to the sector a priority, at that time, was as a result of our sustained engagement with the Central Bank Governor. Our robust engagement with the Management of the Central Bank of Nigeria also led to the review of the list of 41 items not valid for official forex allocation. In the process some items earlier excluded were restored for forex allocation. We are still exerting pressure on the relevant agencies to ensure that all raw materials that were erroneously included in the exclusion list are restored. As in the previous years, we will sustain the advocacy against the signing of the ECOWAS-EU Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) by Nigeria. Our advocacy further helped to facilitate the resuscitation of Export Expansion Grant (EEG) and the modification of the same to include transferability of the Negotiable Export Credit Certificate (NECC) which can now be used for settlement of all Federal Government taxes such as Company Income Tax, VAT, WHT, etc. Ladies and Gentlemen, it is important to mention that MAN will continue to add to the advocacy issues it will pursue this year. Some of these  have been identified and are listed below:  The above would be easier to achieve with your continued support and cooperation.   Relevant position papers of the Association on these issues would be handed over to you in the course of this meeting. I trust that, in your usual supportive manner, extracts of the views expressed in these documents as well as others discussed during our interaction today would be given wide circulation in your media this year. Please be assured that we will remain resolute in advocating for a more conducive operating environment for manufacturers in Nigeria. Distinguished Gentlemen of the Press, once again, I welcome you to this media luncheon and solicit your usual cooperation and support.  Thank you and God bless.  FRANK UDEMBA JACOBS,  PhD, FICCON, FCSN, MON PRESIDENT, MANUFACTURERS ASSOCIATION OF NIGERIA JANUARY 24, 2018 