Union Bank plc, one of Nigeria’s longest serving banking institutions, has been named ‘The Fastest Growing Retail Bank, Nigeria’ in the 2017 edition of the International Finance Magazine (IFM) Awards. The award was presented at the IFM Award ceremony which took place this January in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. The IFM Award is a leading international award that celebrates excellence within the international finance industry. According to a statement released by IFM, the awards shine the spotlight on organizations and individuals who make contributions that raise the bar in the financial industry. Award recipients are selected using a combination of reader nominations and expert analysis which ensures a fair process that is not influenced by reputation or newsworthiness but rather by findings from meticulous research and analysis. Commenting on the award, Carlos Wanderley, Head Retail Banking at Union Bank said: “We are proud to receive this award which is a recognition of our commitment and efforts to build a truly customer-centric bank. We place strong emphasis on innovation, quality customer service and continuous process improvement which has resulted in steady, organic growth across the Bank. We will continue to partner with our customers to support their personal and business ambitions and ensure we provide them with customer-driven solutions and exceptional, fit-for-purpose banking services always.” Union Bank is considered a trusted financial partner for Nigerians with over 100 years heritage of reliable banking services in the country. Following an extensive transformation programme which started in 2014 and involved the upgrade of its processes, platforms, technology and facilities, Union Bank’s active customer base grew by over 40 percent in the last two years. The number of customers on its online and mobile banking platforms also doubled within this period. The Bank’s recently upgraded digital banking platforms – Union Mobile and Union Online and newly introduced USSD code *826# have also received very positive response from customers and the general public. Union Bank’s innovative savings products such as Union Korrect, Union Goal and Union Future have reintroduced the saving culture to Nigerians across the country, helping them achieve their set goals while they stand a  chance to win attractive prizes which has endeared the bank to its customers. Union Bank has earned several awards including the “Most Improved Retail Bank in Nigeria, 2016” by BusinessDay newspapers, “Best Brand Development to Reflect Changed Mission /Vision / Positioning” and “Best Visual Identity from the Financial Services Sector” at the 2016 Transform Awards MENA and “Brand Evolution” and “Iconic Brand of the Year” awards in the 2017 Marketing World Awards. About Union Bank Plc. Established in 1917 and listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1971, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. is a household name and one of Nigeria’s long-standing and most respected financial institutions. The Bank is a trusted and recognizable brand, with an extensive network of over 300 branches across Nigeria. In late 2012, a new Board of Directors and Executive Management team were appointed to Union Bank and in 2014 the Bank began executing a transformation programme to re-establish it as a highly respected provider of quality financial services. The Bank currently offers a variety of banking services to both individual and corporate clients including current, savings and deposit account services, funds transfer, foreign currency domiciliation, loans, overdrafts, equipment leasing and trade finance. The Bank also offers its customers convenient electronic banking channels and products including Online Banking, Mobile Banking, Debit Cards, ATMs and POS Systems.
More information can be found at: www.unionbankng.com
Media Enquiries: Email yowonubi@unionbankng.com