The management of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has condemned the antics of smugglers and other economic saboteurs using innocent Nigerians as shield after committing their nefarious crimes. The Service described as dangerous antics by smugglers using unsuspecting members of the public as a shield to evade arrest and avoid their smuggled wares from being lawfully seized. This came at the backdrop of recent clashes between suspected smugglers taking cover in the midst of people in parts of Lagos and Ogun state resulting in death in Lagos and injuries sustained by a pregnant woman in Ogun State from bullet shells. Reacting to the development, spokesman of the Nigeria Customs Service, Joseph Attah , said smugglers have devised a strategy of running into crowded places to shield themselves with members of the society and solicit support and unlawfully resisting arrest while running away with smuggled items. Attah urged members of the public to avoid being used to advance the cause of illegal smuggling business and solicited support through relevant information about smuggling activities that will lead to their arrest and seizures of smuggled items. ”Smugglers have devised a method of tacitly recruiting members of the public to fight for them. Unknown to these people, they are being used as shield to protect illegal business of smuggling which further impoverish them and endangers their lives through consumption of things brought into the country unlawfully.
”They wickedly put the lives of the people they run into on the line. We ask for information on their activities and their stores where smuggled things are kept.People should support government’s drive for a better country by supporting the arrest of these smugglers” He said, people who fight against the economic and social growth of the country should not be allowed to use their victims as shield. He described smugglers as heartless persons who are bent on making money at all cost even if it means exposing citizens to danger. Attah said the Comptroller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd) empathise with persons who got injured in the cause of the service anti- smuggling operations. The Customs often faced hostilities in the mist of the public when carrying out their statutory functions of revenue collection and enforcing anti- smuggling laws. These scenario have often pitched the customs officers with the general public which often leads to deaths or injuries on both sides. The Service urged the general public to always support the Service to carryout their functions for a better Country.