 The restructuring and modernisation of the Nigerian Postal Service will not lead to job losses, the Director-General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises, Mr. Alex Okoh, has said. According to a statement issued by Head of Public Communication, BPE, Mr. Chukwuma Nwokoh, in Abuja on Thursday, Okoh gave the assurance at a meeting between the management team of NIPOST and the BPE. The BPE boss also stated that the restructuring exercise would lead to NIPOST’s unbundling to create stand-alone business components that would project the organisation’s brand, provide efficient services and be put on a profitable path. He noted that NIPOST had great potential and that given the right incentives and business strategy, it would become efficient, profitable and provide value for money. Okoh said that the final decision on the restructuring would be dependent on the outcome of the work of the advisers engaged for the transaction. He added that although the BPE had the mandate to carry out the reform, the exercise would be carried out in collaboration with all the critical stakeholders to ensure that it was done without hitches. The BPE boss allayed the fears of job cuts and pledged to work with the management of NIPOST to accommodate their views to transform the organisation into a viable entity. Okoh said the bureau was always conscious of the macroeconomic impact in carrying out its mandate of reform and privatisation. In his response, the Postmaster General of the Federation and Chief Executive of NIPOST, Mr. Bisi Adegbuyi, stated that the organisation had braced for the reform and had begun restructuring in readiness for it. He said NIPOST had been re-engineered to carry out certain services, including e-commerce, e-insurance, rural banking and the Post Youth Engagement Strategy, aimed at engaging the youth who form the vast population of Nigeria. Adegbuyi announced that in line with the new services it planned to offer to the Nigerian public, NIPOST’s Electronic Money Order would be introduced in February.