THE FULL SPEECH TEXT OF MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REMARKS AT THE FORMAL ROLL OUT OF THE FIRST SUCCESSFULLY CONDUCTED BOEING 737-500 C-CHECK IN NIGERIA HELD ON JANUARY 12, 2018 AT AERO CONTRACTORS COMPANY OF NIGERIA LIMITED.
MURTALA MUHAMMED AIRPORT IKEJA, LAGOS STATE Protocol:  Kindly allow me to stand on all other existing protocols.  On behalf of Management and Staff of Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON), I cannot fully express how happy we are to have facilitated this massive development that will eternally change Aviation narratives in Nigeria.  The managing director of AMCON’s speech was delivered by Mr. Aminu Ismail, Executive Director, AMCON saying What we are witnessing here today, which is the Roll Out of the First Successful Conduct of a Boeing 737-500 series C-Check in the country justifies AMCON’s resolve and commitment towards the development and stabilisation of our challenged Aviation sector. We are all living witnesses to the controversies that have trailed AMCONs intervention in the Aviation sector particularly for those who did not really understand AMCON’s mandate as a resolution and stabilisation vehicle, and the good intentions of both the Federal Government and AMCON in the sector.  For us, Aviation is not just a critical sector but also a strategic and core component of any economy or country that wants to compete on the global scale. If Nigeria must compete, our only option is to have a sustainable, vibrant and dependable Aviation sector. Therefore intervening in Aero and indeed all other airlines in the country,was for us a national assignment, geared towards both our resolution objective and the need to help in rebuilding the Nigerian economy. As a recovery Agency of the Federal Government, it was not for us an option to stand aloof and watch while airlines such as Aero, with its rich history and others be grounded as a result of challenges in management and governance, plus accumulated debt obligations.  I want to place on record the unflinching support we have always received from the Hon. Minister of State for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, who deeply understood the mandate of AMCON in Aviation and stood firm by us when AMCON took all the tough decisions that have been earlier highlighted today. I also want to thank the Receiver Manager of Aero, Mr. Adeniyi Adegbonmire SAN, the Chief Executive Officer of Aero, Capt. Ado Sanusi and the entire team at Aero, for working hard at ensuring success in this venture. Let me thank my colleagues at AMCON especially the Executive Directors who have played different roles in ensuring we completely recovered and are gradually stabilising Aero. I dare say it is not uhuru just yet because it is still work-in-progress for us and all stakeholders.  It is important to underscore the fact that that Aero Contractors’ certification to conduct the C-Checks for Boeing 737-500 series locally is a boom for the industry because it would save millions of dollars that Nigerian Airlines and not just Aero, spend outside this country on facilities such as this. It is our belief that Aero’s maintenance facility will achieve huge savings for operators even from other neighbouring African countries, thereby attracting the much needed funds that is required to strengthen our economy.This success can be replicated across other industries in Nigeria.  I strongly believe that more can be done if we imbibe good corporate governance, hold management accountable, and have responsive regulators.  As we conclude this event, I would like to solicit the support for Aero MRO by all stakeholders, particularly the relevant Aviation Regulatory Bodies, towards ensuring that this seed that has been planted is allowed to grow, in our collective interest as Nigeria and Nigerians. We cannot continue to allow capital flight of our scarce foreign exchange towards paying for services that are available in Nigeria and would provide a source of employment for our people. To this end a directive to other airlines towards the use of this facility at least to the extent of its capabilities and certifications, would go along way towards ensuring the growth of the Aero MRO into being certified for other Aircrafts types.  I thank you all for listening.   Ahmed Kuru, FCIB Managing Director 