  The Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, has chided President Muhammadu Buhari for replacing the sacked National Intelligence Agency’s Director General, Ambassador Ayo Oke, with Ahmed Rufai Abubakar, a northerner. Fayose in a statement by his Special Assistant on Public Communications and New Media, Lere Olayinka, said, seeing what President Buhari had turned the country to, the forefathers of Nigeria, who laid the foundation of the country on equity, justice and fairness, would be lamenting wherever they were. “The President has further demonstrated to Nigerians that he is an unrepentant sectional leader, who does not care about the feelings of people from other parts of the country. “With the appointment of Ahmed Rufai Abubakar as the NIA Director General, all the heads of security agencies are now northerners and the question is, is this what those who enshrined the federal character principle in our constitution envisaged?” “Ambassador Ayo Oke was removed from office the same day Babachir Lawal was removed as the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. While Lawal’s replacement came from his home state, Oke’s replacement came from the North. That is unacceptable,” he said. Fayose reminded Nigerians of the President’s directive that the World Bank should shift its focus to the northern region of Nigeria for its developmental initiatives. “Because of the President’s nepotism, religious bigotry and favouritism, Nigeria is now more divided than ever before. “President Buhari has consistently demonstrated that he is an ethnic champion, a religious bigot and the number one promoter of disunity in Nigeria. This he has done again with the appointment of yet another northerner as the NIA Director General. “Even at a point, the National Chairman of the President’s party, the All Progressives Congress, John Odigie-Oyegun, had to openly fault the appointments made by the President, saying that as many as three people were appointed from one ward in a local government in the North. “The implication of what the President has done is that, when the Security Council meeting is held today, apart from one or two insignificant people, those in the meeting will be people from one section of the country. “Even para-military agencies are headed by people from President Buhari’s section of the country. This is unfair.