  The Nigeria Army has revealed that Boko Haram has recruiters all over the country, especially in the Northeast, adding that the group’s clearing house for such recruitment is at Potiskum in Yobe State. Potiskum, a local government in Yobe state about 234 kilometres from Maiduguri, the Boko Haram epicenter is known in the northeast for pursuing radical Islamic ideology. The Director Army Public Relations Officer, Brig. General Sani Usman Kukasheka made the revelation on Monday, stressing that efforts are ongoing to track those involved. The General also spoke on tricks abducted by the Boko Haram terrorists for evading air raids, saying that, their tricks have been unraveled by the Theatre Command of Operation LAFIYA DOLE combating insurgency in the Northeast of Nigeria. His words: “The Boko Haram terrorists group have always perfected survival tricks to continue their nefarious activities through enticement, deceit, concealment and outright propaganda.” Kukasheka said, these were decoded through credible intelligence which became imperative for the public to be aware of it. “The Insurgents deployed special roofing techniques in order to avoid air detection and bombardment from the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). “They resort to roofing their living accommodation and hideouts with a mixture of coated sugar and mud so that the roof will not reflect when there is sun shine. Decisive measures have been taken to deal with this deception. “There is no doubt that the main Boko Haram terrorists group factional leader, Abubakar Shekau, is in a terrible state of health and not much a threat as he is now a spent horse, waiting for his waterloo. However, Abu Mus’ab Albarnawiy, who has been busy deceiving and recruiting gullible persons especially misguided youths into his fold will soon be captured. ”We reliably learnt that some misguided persons, particularly youths, are getting conscripted into the sect through enticements. They are usually attracted to the sect because of the deceitful and erroneous impression that Abu Musab’s Albarnawiy brand of “jihad” and insurgency is refined and genuine. “This is far from it. Both factions are terrorists’ organizations whose activities constitute crimes against humanity. Their nefarious activities run contrary to the religion of Islam,” The Army spokesman said.