 The inability of the Central Bank of Nigeria to hold its first Monetary Policy Committee meeting scheduled for yesterday (Monday) and today (Tuesday) may affect the rate of investment inflows into the economy, finance and economic experts have said. The MPC meeting was put on hold following the failure of the Senate to screen the nominated members sent to it since last year by President Muhammadu Buhari There are 12 members of the committee out of which the tenure of eight had elapsed, leaving only four members on the panel and making it impossible for the committee to form a quorum. The lawmakers had maintained that they would not confirm any nominee by the executive until the impasse regarding the nomination and non-confirmation of the acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Crimes Commission, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, was resolved. While some of the analysts, who spoke to our correspondent in separate telephone interviews, said the inability of the apex bank to hold the meeting might send a wrong signal to the market, others said it was wrong for the lawmakers to sacrifice the interest of the economy on the altar of politics. They said the implication of the cancellation of the meeting was that investors would adopt a wait-and-see attitude to know the policy direction of the apex bank before they could commit more resources into investment. Those who spoke to our correspondent on the development were the Director-General, Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Chijioke Ekechukwu; Managing Director, BGL Capital, Mr. Olufemi Ademola; a former Managing Director, Unity Bank Plc, Mr. Rislanudeen Mohammed; and an Associate Professor of Finance, Uche Uwaleke. Ekechukwu said, “The aborted MPC meeting due to lack of quorum will adversely affect financial decisions of the country and investors generally. This is so because this was to be the first meeting for this fiscal year and, therefore, was to chart a course for monetary, credit, and fiscal direction of the country. “Investors are waiting, banks are waiting, the capital market is waiting and other countries are waiting for these monetary policy indicators to be able to take their financial and investment decisions.” He added, “Although the CBN has retained all the rates by retaining the Monetary Policy Rate at 14 per cent, Cash Reserve Ratio at 22.5 per cent and Liquidity Ratio at 30 per cent, these rates and ratios probably would have changed if the MPC had met. “Investors, both local and foreign, are still going to hold back their investments until these variables become clearer and known.” Ademola, on his part, said since the financial markets relied heavily on sentiments, the delay in holding the MPC meeting was not good for the country’s economy. He stated, “Because the markets rely heavily on sentiments, this development is not a good one. It has the tendency of affecting investors’ confidence in our economy and eroding the recent gains. “However, it doesn’t have any significant impact on our financial system. We have been used to holding the rates steady; hence the system is fine. And we should also remember that the MPC is advisory; therefore, the CBN will still be responsible for reacting to any issues.” Mohammed noted that the statement by the CBN that the economy remained sound despite the postponement of the MPC meeting was commendable.