The Nigeria Customs Service said on Thursday that it generated N1.1tn revenue and seized contraband goods worth more than N40bn between January and November. The amount is greater than the sum generated in 2017. The NCS in 2017, made N1.03trn, the highest revenue ever generated by the service and above that year’s set revenue target of N770bn. The Public Relations Officer of the service, Mr Joseph Attah, was quoted by the News Agency of Nigeria, as saying that the amount realised had far surpassed the revenue generated in 2017. Attah also disclosed that 59 containers of Tramadol and other controlled- drugs were confiscated across the commands within the period. He said that 40 containers were seized in Apapa Port, 10 in Tin Can Island Port and nine in Onne Port in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital. Attah said that the quantum of seizures was a testimony that the service had been able to block leakages and enforce the anti-smuggling law more effectively this year. According to him, the strategic deployment of officers and men of the service and establishment of strike force as the third layers of security, have impacted positively on Customs’ operations. He said, “We are aware that our insistence on compliance, arrest and prosecution of smugglers and increasing disposition of Customs officers to place national interest above self is against the interest of some people. “With these achievements, we must have stepped on toes, and that is why some enemies go to town with misleading information by accusing the service of nepotism, non-facilitation of trade and corruption. “It is curious that such people will choose the time when officers are turning down bribes like the case in Apapa. “Our officers rejected N150m bribe offered by arrested suspect, to save the nation from consuming 40 containers of dangerous drugs.” The spokesperson said that the service, charged with the responsibilities of implementing fiscal policy of the government, would not allow blackmail to deter it.