The Nigeria Shippers’ Council (NSC) stated while giving the stewardship of the organisation in the outgoing year, regretted that 12 years after port reform, the Transport Commission and the Port and Harbor bills remained unavailable  The federal government’s desire of bringing sanity to shipping services characterised by high and indiscriminate increase in cargo terminal charges by private terminal operators as well as poor service delivery will not be realised in the absence of a strong regulatory agency as envisaged in the National Transportation Commission Bill passed by the National Assembly for which the president has withheld assent, the Nigeria Shippers Council (NSC) has warned.  In addition to the Port and Harbor Bill which is yet to see the light of day, “regulation has remained cumbersome and policy enhancement elusive and resistance to regulations common among operators,” The Executive Secretary of the NSC.  “Litigation has been rife in the sector with it attendant private monopoly instead of public monopoly that will encourage competition in the sector,” he said.   The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the bill which had been passed by the National Assembly suffered a setback recently as the president declined his assent to it.  Barrister Hassan Bello, Executive Secretary/Chief Executive of the NSC told newsmen in Lagos on Wednesday that the absent of operational guidelines had continued to affect the regulation of the shipping sector.   “Because of the non availability of those bills, regulation has remained cumbersome and policy enhancement elusive and resistance to regulations common among operators.  “Litigation has been rife in the sector with it attendant private monopoly instead of public monopoly that will encourage competition in the sector,” he said.  According to him the passages of those bills will among other things enhance policy formulation geared towards the development of the sector.  NSC ES/CE, therefore, appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to reconsider his decision to decline assent to the National Transportation Commission Bill.  Bello pointed out that in a bid to smoothen transactions at the ports; the NSC had developed standard operation procedure for port users to reduce delays in cargo handling processes in order to reduce cost.  National Transportation Commission Bill, which was meant to streamline regulations in the transport industry, especially in the maritime sector, was promoted by the shippers’ council. 