The appointment of Mrs Olatokunbo Adenike Fagbemi as the new Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (nahco aviance). According to the report, Mrs Adenike-Fagbemi took over effective December 20, 2018, following the resignation of Mr. Idris Yakubu, the erstwhile Managing Director. The company said Adenike-Fagbemi’s appointment was to drive the new group structure announced by the company. Mrs Adenike-Fagbemi is an experienced industry hand with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) certification and well known Airport Council International (AC) facilitator, a thoroughbred professional and most importantly is her knowledge of the tripod in the industry which is unions, government and pressure groups. The new managing director, Mrs Adenike-Fagbemi is thoroughly experienced, having worked with civil aviation authorities and ground handling companies in Nigeria, Ghana and Sierra Leone unlike the immediate past MD/CEO who was a banker and had no knowledge whatsoever of how to run an aviation company. A NAHCO official alleged that the former Managing Director so personalized governance “to the point that when he was not around, nothing got done. The acting MD in his absence was not allowed to make any approval, only to relate all requests, including emergency ones to him abroad.” According to the Company, all NAHCO’s subsidiary companies, including NAHCO Free Zone (NFZ), Nahco Energy and Power (EPI) and Mainland Cargo Options Limited (MCO), henceforth would report directly to the new GMD/CEO. “Mrs Adenike-Fagbemi will implement the new strategic plan; operationalise a seamless and harmonised group structure which will transform NAHCO into one of the best companies in the world. The new GMD will focus on improving customer experience, drive stakeholder value, enhance shareholders’ investment in the Company, integrate and closely monitoring of the activities of the subsidiaries to create synergies and better returns on capital,” the company said. She is one of the few African women to have achieved the highly rigorous standards for expertise in the field of airport management including aviation ground handling and facilitation. In addition to the IAP Certification, Mrs Adenike-Fagbemi holds a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from IESE, University of Nevara, Spain. She also holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Pharmacy from the University of Ibadan. Also she attended Maryhill Convent School Ibadan, Queens School Ibadan and International School Ibadan. Mrs Adenike-Fagbemi holds Certificates in Air Transport Management, Airport Commercial Revenue Development, from the Cranfield University, UK and Harvard University USA She also a holder of Certificate in Leaders in Development Infrastructure in an Emerging Economy from Kennedy School of Government (KSG), Harvard University.  The Caption Photo: The new Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (nahco aviance), Mrs Olatokunbo Adenike Fagbemi 