 In recognition of its high standard, quality of human resources development, training and capacity building, The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria(CIBN) has certified and awarded UBA Academy the certificate of accreditation in line with the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Competency Framework for the banking industry. UBA Academy, the dedicated learning and development center of the Pan African financial institution,  United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, was accorded the new recognition of excellence at a ceremony presided over by the President/Chairman of Council of the institute, Dr. Uche Olowu in Lagos on Thursday. According to the president of the institute, UBA Academy was conferred with the new status having met the rigorous standards set for the delivery of their suites of programmes by the Institute. The certification follows a rigorous assessment exercise carried out by the institute’s Capacity Building Committee, the accreditation agency under the competency framework for the country’s banking and finance industry instituted by the Central Bank of Nigeria. “This Accreditation is an affirmation that UBA Academy has adopted and complied with the minimum assessment standards for programmes run by the organization, which have gained a label of recognition and distinction,” Olowu said. According to him the accreditation of UBA Academy would enable its graduates to be eligible for exemptions from various subjects in the banking professional examinations thereby facilitating their completion of the Chartered Banker examination.  “This will not only enable them to comply with the provisions of the Competency Framework for the banking industry, but it will also go a long way in the strengthening of the intellectual resources and capabilities available in their institutions,” he concluded. Speaking at the ceremony, the Bank’s Group Head Human Resources, Mrs Patricia Aderibigbe, while appreciating the recognition conferred on the UBA Academy, said the academy has already embarked on training for the future with digitisation of its training programmes and modules. “With Ignite, UBA has taken training into the future as we believe that the only way to get the best results and continually stay ahead of the curve is to continually sharpen our most important asset – our people, using mobile technology,” Aderibigbe said. Aderibigbe promised that UBA Academy will continuously seek improvement in ensuring that it serves the needs of industry in a changing banking industry. CIBN 1: l-r: Head UBA Academy, Akin Morakinyo; Group Head, HR Operations & Shared Services, United Bank for Africa(UBA) Plc, Bayo Odeyale;  1st Vice President, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria( CIBN), Bayo Olugbemi; President/Chairman of Council, CIBN,  Uche Olowu;  Group Head Human Resources,  UBA Plc, Patricia Aderibigbe; 2nd Vice President, CIBN, Ken Opara; Registrar/CE, CIBN; Seye Awojobi; National Treasurer, CIBN, Deji Olanrewaju; and Chairman, Capacity Building Committee, CIBN, Abdulraham Yinusa , during the presentation of certificate of accreditation to UBA Academy by the Institute in Lagos on Thursday  CIBN 2: l-r: Head UBA Academy, Akin Morakinyo; Group Head, HR Operations & Shared Services, United Bank for Africa(UBA) Plc, Bayo Odeyale;  1st Vice President, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria( CIBN), Mr. Bayo Olugbemi; President/Chairman of Council, CIBN, Dr. Uche Olowu;  Group Head Human Resources,  UBA Plc, Patricia Aderibigbe; 2nd Vice President, CIBN, Ken Opara; Registrar/CE, CIBN; Seye Awojobi; and National Treasurer, CIBN, Deji Olanrewaju, during the presentation of certificate of accreditation to UBA Academy by the Institute in Lagos on Thursday  CIBN 3: l-r: Group Head, HR Operations & Shared Services, United Bank for Africa(UBA) Plc, Bayo Odeyale;  1st Vice President, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria( CIBN), Mr. Bayo Olugbemi; President/Chairman of Council, CIBN, Dr. Uche Olowu;  Group Head Human Resources,  United Bank for Africa(UBA) Plc, Patricia Aderibigbe; 2nd Vice President, CIBN, Ken Opara; Registrar/CE, CIBN; Seye Awojobi, during the presentation of certificate of accreditation to UBA Academy by the Institute in Lagos on Thursday  CIBN 4: l-r: President/Chairman of Council, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria(CIBN), Dr. Uche Olowu presenting Certificate of Accreditation for UBA Academy to  Group Head Human Resources,  UBA Plc, Patricia Aderibigbe; Flanked  from left Registrar/CE, CIBN; Seye Awojobi; 1st Vice President, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria( CIBN), Mr. Bayo Olugbemi ; National Treasurer, CIBN, Deji Olanrewaju; Head UBA Academy, Akin Morakinyo; Group Head, HR Operations & Shared Services, United Bank for Africa(UBA) Plc, Bayo Odeyale,  at a ceremony  in Lagos on Thursday