…. the country paying over $150million per year as a war zone insurance premium and other security costs… From Left: Representing Nigeria Senate President, Chief Kayode Odunayo, President of AMJON, Paul Ogbuokiri and Secretary General, Nigerian Merchant Navy Officers and Water Transport Senior Staff Association, Comrade Julius Efokpor at AMJON All Maritime Journalists Retreat Held in Badagry, Lagos on Saturday Management of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) has been urged instead to dwelling in the denial of non piracy on our waters. The Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria – AMJON – President  Mr Paul Ogbuokiri stated this on Saturday at the 2nd edition of All Maritime Journalists Retreat with theme: Promoting A Synergy Between The Maritime, Oil & Gas Industry For National Development saying the NIMASA should walk the talk in ensuring adequate security of Nigerian waterways as our waters is terrible and has become a no go area, infested by pirates. The retreat is an annual event organised by the Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON) to enable members keep abreast of development in the maritime sector, identify challenges being faced by the stakeholders and offer suggestions that mitigate such challenges held in Badagry, Lagos. Mr Ogbuokiri said the NIMASA can follow what the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation -NNPC-did by awarded contract of oil pipelines protection to former militants notwithstanding that the present governments criticize the strategy when in opposition. “If NIMASA compares notes with NNPC today, the reality is that NNPC has proved to be wiser as Nigeria’s crude oil export has continued to flow with the pipelines guarded by ex-militants. Piracy on our waters is terrible, has become a no go area and really hurting the nation’s economy.” The AMJON president noted that the country paying over $150million per year as a war zone insurance premium and other security costs for guards on board foreign ships culling on Nigerian ports. NIMASA is busy shopping for foreign security companies, it could award mouth -watering security contracts to secure our water’s. In the same vein: AMJON President urge NIMASA saying the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF) disbursed to local ship owners to further empower the local ship owners to participate in the carriage of Nigerian Crude Ogbuokiri commended the leadership of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) for repositioning the port industry and also partnering with Nigeria Customs Service to improve revenue generations to the government. He also commended NPA, Nigeria Flour Mills plc and Dangote group for through the instrumentality of their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) have successfully completed the 3 kilometres Mike Adenuga Road We urge the federal government to ensure early completion of Oshodi/Apapa Express way awarded to Dangote Construction Company and signing of the Nigerian Transport Commission Act (NTC) to enable its go into operational coming year.  