The Financial Control (FinCon) and Enterprise Business Services Unit of Access Bank Plc yesterday hosted students from the Correctional Centre for Senior Boys, Isheri Lagos; Special Correction Centre for Boys, Oregun and Correctional Centre for junior Boys, Yaba, in Lagos. The programme is part of the bank’s  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) plan to the overall success of its operation. The students from the three institutions competed for best performers in music and arts at a competition organized by the lender. Present at the event were three judges and representatives of the Lagos State Government. Aside the group presentations by the three institutions, there were also individual talent exhibition through singing and playing of musical instruments. Speaking at the event, Access Bank’s Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Seyi Kumapayi, said the lender wants to touch lives of the students in a. Positive manner by making them to become better members of the society. He said: “We want to touch their lives in a positive manner. We chose students from different correctional institutions to see how we can impact their lives positively and make them better persons within the communities where they live. We have gone to orphanages and other places where less previledged people live,” he said. Continuing, Kumapayi said that the FINCON Unit of the bank wants to encourage the children to do their best and also display their talents and watched by the three judges who will assess their performances and reward the winner accordingly. Also speaking, Principal, Correctional Centre for Senior Boys, Isheri Lagos, Koleso Olatunde, said many of the boys in the genre are without parents and needed support to be integrated into the communities. He said many of the boys are from Lagos and other states within the federation adding that the facility belongs to Lagos State. “Some of the students come from broken homes and we have to return them back after their integration. We ensure that many of them learn trade, go to school and even handiwork that will make them successful and responsible members of the society,” eh said. Olatunde said that many of the children need mentors to help them navigate their current challenges and become better citizens.He thanked Access Bank Plc for the support given to the children, adding that it is a Corporate Social Responsibility that should be emulated by other banks. At the end of the programme, the winning institution was given musical instrument by the bank. According to the bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report, its CSR philosophy was developed in accordance to relevant international standards and guidelines such as the AA1000 Assurance standards and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 sustainability reporting guidelines. The report focuses on the Group’s approach to sustainability with respect to specific environmental and social issues that were of interest to bank’s stakeholder groups. The bank has successfully made its impact felt in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility and empowerment. Recently, Access Bank Plc hosted an innovation challenge where several ideas were pitched by participants with a view to finding solutions to problems in agriculture, transportation, security and power, in line with its corporate strategy of developing innovative solutions that drive economic development.