The Standards Organisation of Nigeria has announced that it was mopping up substandard lubricants in different parts of the country. It explained that the action became necessary after it discovered that most lubricants in the market failed to meet quality parameters of the Nigerian Industrial Standard. The Director- General, SON, Osita Aboloma, who was represented by the Coordinator, Surveillance, Intelligence and Monitoring unit, SON, Isa Suleiman, at an enforcement exercise in ASPAMDA market, Lagos, disclosed that over five containers  of substandard lubricants were seized to prevent the goods from finding their way into the hands of unsuspecting buyers. A statement quoted him as saying, “Before now, we did a lot of surveillance activities where most of the brands of this engine oil and lubricants were tested. “Quite a number of them failed the test, including this particular brand we have intercepted. “This activity is just the beginning; we are going to follow up while also talking to the market leaders for self-regulation.” He urged members of the public to always look out for the Mandatory Conformity Assessment Programme number and logo to ensure that they purchase standard and certified products. The agency also disclosed that it found some substandard products in Saclux Industries Limited, at Sabon Gari market, and Exim Impex warehouse in Kano city. Also, drums of branded and unbranded lubricants were discovered at Becmac Limited, lubricant marketers,  in Port Harcourt. According to SON, twelve shops have been sealed in Mile One, Ikoku, Iriebe/Oyigbo axis of the state, adding that 16 drums of Luv Oil were also quarantined. The officials of the agency discovered the major source of substandard Mobil oil in Abuja,  during an operation that lasted for seven hours, to trace back from the open market to the major distributor, the statement added. “The exercise led to the closure of 10 warehouses and shops within the Federal Capital Territory. The major distributor has nine of the ten sealed warehouses and substandard Mobil lubricant of about 700 cartons were put on hold. Other lubricants put on hold were Total lubricants suspected to be substandard, Forte oil, Ammasco, Castel oil, a foreign brand,” the statement added.