Axxela Limited, a Nigerian gas and power portfolio company, has signed a Gas Transportation Agreement with the West African Gas Pipeline Company Limited to transport over 15 million standard cubic feet per day of natural gas via the West African Gas Pipeline to Lome, Togo. The Chief Executive Officer, Axxela, Bolaji Osunsanya, was quoted as saying at the signing ceremony in Accra, Ghana, “The partnership between Axxela, WAPCo, and the West African Gas Pipeline Authority, portends major benefits for the West African gas markets.” He said, according to a statement, that the flow of new molecules beyond the existing foundation contracts would diversify gas supply sources into the WAGP. Osunsanya, who affirmed Axxela’s mid-term growth plan, said, “Propelled by our professionalism, strategic partnerships, and excellence across our business enterprise, we remain firmly committed to the positioning of gas as a catalyst for socio-economic empowerment across the region’s key markets.” The Managing Director, WAPCo, Walter Perez, said, “With public and private players increasingly working together to propel the gas advantage, our partnership with Axxela speaks to our overarching strategy for increased regional supply and participation. “WAPCo is continuously driven to spur regional gas integration, and we are highly delighted to welcome Axxela on board the WAGP, and look forward to a fruitful and industry-defining collaboration.” According to the statement, Axxela is also developing a floating storage and regasification unit in Lagos, with the capacity to serve Nigeria and the region. It said the concept would see the injection of gas via a regasification terminal at a strategic location along the city’s coastline, with gas supplied via Liquefied Natural Gas shuttle vessels. “The virtual pipeline solution will also enable uninterrupted gas supplies and enhance gas utilisation across key industrial clusters,” the Axxela added. The WAGP is a 678km regional pipeline linking the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline System in Nigeria to Takoradi in Ghana, with gas delivery laterals from the main line extending to Cotonou, Benin; Lome, Togo; and Tema, Ghana.