Foremost human rights group, the committee for the defense of human rights (CDHR) has dissociated itself, officers and members fro the purported endorsement of the gubernatorial candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Lagos state, Mr Babajide Sanwoolu by some political groups masquerading as civil society groups.   The CDHR in a press release signed by its national publicity secretary, Comrade Muyiwa Kushimo, stated that the purported endorsement of the APC guber candidate by some hirelings masquerading as civil society persons was not done for patriotic or altruistic reasons.  The group maintained that all its members are entitled to political choices but that the organisation does not engage in such and will be counterproductive engaging in such at this point in time, stressing that the candidate is eminently qualified for the exalted position, but the endorsement was not done in good faith as none of its members was present at the parley where the supposed endorsement held.  According to the group” we have to specifically clarify a report in the dailies, especially, the nation of Friday titled ’70 civil society groups endorse Sanwoolu, since our dear organisation, the CDHR was mentioned as one of the groups.” It’s instructive to note that CDHR does not embark on political expedition of sort. This is not to say our members are not entitled to political choices, but as organisation, we are apolitical. This is to dissociate our noble organisation from the shenanigans that was christened endorsement by desperate political jobbers. Though we are not against the aspiration of anybody, but as an organization, we remain apolitical.”   Continuing “from our findings so far, the organizers of the charade didn’t consult with the organisation nor contacted any of our structure, so we were alarmed that some political jobbers desperate for relevance included the name of our organisation. This is the height of political hara-kiri and we want to specifically enjoin the candidate and his party to be wary of these desperate people who are out to scam him as those cooked up organisations were nothing but hurriedly created contraption to deceive Mr Sanwoolu and his party. “ The CDHR further posited that though it has nothing against the aspiration of Mr Sanwoolu but will not watch and allow charlatans draw its hard earned name in disrepute by dragging it into political contestation and that legal action will be taken if such re occur, warning those who masterminded the endorsement to desist from including its name in any other publication.  “Finally and for the umpteenth time, Mr Sanwoolu is qualified and we have no issue against him, but rather with dragging of our noble organization into political contestation. We shall not hesitate to approach the court if such happens again as ours is not a political platform,” the group concluded. 