The Bankers Warehouse Limited said it was a company duly licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria to move currency and asset, adding that it was legally moving $2.8m which belonged to a client on Thursday when the operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission intercepted the money at the Enugu airport. It faulted the arrest and detention of its personnel moving the currency, even after they had provided their identification details and covering notes for the transaction. The company in a statement on Sunday stated that, “On Thursday evening, December 20, 2018, while providing a legitimate currency movement service for one of our bank clients from their branch at Onitsha to their branch in Lagos, our couriers were stopped at the Enugu airport, detained and interrogated by agents of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, despite providing their identification details. The documents provided also included a covering note from the bank, authorising the team to move the consignment; which is the standard practice. “We hereby state emphatically that the movement of the currency was a legitimate exercise, being carried out on behalf of a legitimate financial institution. “We emphasise that our employees are in no way criminals, carrying out any act of illegality as the EFCC has tried to portray. The young men whose character and reputation have been deliberately soiled by the EFCC operatives were conducting their legitimate duties as requested by a bank customer of our company. The company requested for the swift and immediate release of its employees and its customer’s currency, both detained without proper cause. “We also demand an immediate retraction by the EFCC and an apology issued to our company and our employees whose images have been maligned. “Our client, who has been unfairly exposed and accused of implied illegality, and whose money is still being improperly held by the EFCC operatives, deserve a very special apology for the disclosure of their business and damage done to their image.”