The federal government has been told to take urgent steps to clean up the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), one of Nigeria’s top internal revenue generating agencies.  Veteran journalist and public commentator, Elder Asu Beks, in a press conference in Lagos on Wednesday passed a vote of no confidence on the Comptroller General of the NCS, Col. Hameed Alli (Rtd) who he said lacked cognate professional experience and professionalism and called on the federal government to take steps to appoint a serving career officer to that office.  In the first place, he said it was wrong for the federal government to have appointed a non-career officer to head such a highly technical and professional organisation.  “More than three years on, Hameed Ali has performed abysmally. He has failed to promote professionalism and discipline in the Service leaving officers to seek self help”, he said pointing out that oftentimes, officers sent on official assignments or on transfers are denied their allowances and entitlements.  “Corruption has reached an unprecedented height as promotion and juicy postings are usually on recommendations from prominent emirs,” Elder Beks said.  He complained about the severe and harsh conditions under which customs personnel work with little or no motivation, no scanners at entry points coupled with obsolete weapons to confront sophisticated criminals.  The result is that Nigeria’s borders have become more porous while officers of the service are being killed by economic saboteurs with little or no worry to the leadership at Customs headquarters.  He also faulted the Hameed Ali led management in their handling of seized goods which he said has led to overcrowding of government warehouses in major customs commands.  “Goods, mostly cars, running into billions of naira have been allowed to rot away due to Hameed Ali’s refusal to comply with extant laws on the disposal of those goods.”  Taking a look at the state of maritime industry, the media veteran called on the federal government to declare a state of emergency on the ports and border posts pointing out that “the situation on ground might compromise our entire national security” following an invasion by “an army of invaders”.  As part of this state of emergency, all imports into the country should be subjected to 100 per cent physical examination citing recent seizures of large consignments of hard drugs and firearms imported into the country.  More than 12 years ago, when government embarked on the concessioning of port operation, he recalled that industry watchers had warned the privatization exercise may lead to security compromises with dire consequences pointing at the recent seizures as indicators that such fears were justified 