A total amount of $40m has been disbursed by the Federal Government to about 15 states under the youth employment and social support programme. The $40m, when converted based on the official N305 to a dollar exchange rate of the Central Bank of Nigeria, amounts to about N12.2bn. The National Coordinator, Youth Employment and Social Support Operations of the Federal Government, Mrs Hajara Sani, made this known in Abuja. She said that the $40m was disbursed out of the $400m that was set aside by the World Bank for the programme. YESSO is a programme aimed at strengthening the state level social safety net systems and reducing the vulnerability of poor youth and women through increased access to work opportunities and promoting human capital development. Sani said YESSO was introduced in 2013 by the World Bank in collaboration with the Federal Government to support federal and state government efforts to improve the lives of the poor and vulnerable in the society. She explained that before the disbursements could begin, a social register of the poor and vulnerable had to be collected and it took the office over three years to do so. She said that so far, the government was implementing the programme to assist the poor and vulnerable in 15 states. The states are Bauchi, Cross River, Ekiti, Kogi, Kwara, Niger, Osun, Oyo, Adamawa, Taraba, Gombe, Borno, Sokoto, Yobe and Ondo. She said that currently, YESSO had about 1.55 million individuals from 354,000 households in its social register. Sani urged the remaining 21 states who had yet to join the programme to do so, as the World Bank grant was open to all the states in the country. She expressed optimism that by next year, about four other states- Akwa-Ibom, Kaduna, Kebbi and Abia had indicated interest to be part of the programme in 2019. She said that to encourage more states to participate in the YESSO programme, the World Bank had cut the required counterpart funding by state governments from 50 per cent to ten per cent. This means that for every one Naira the government invest into youth empowerment, the World Bank would provide nine Naira for it. Sani explained that the YESSO aimed to reduce poverty and promote work opportunity through public workfare, skills for job and targeted grant transfer programmes.