 The Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria has inaugurated Mrs. Felicia Agubata, an employee of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency as its 15th president. At the investiture in Lagos, on Saturday, the Managing Director, NAMA, Capt. Fola Akinkuotu, said the ingenuity of women engineers in the country in ensuring stability in the system should be commended. Akinkuotu described the new president as a woman of courage, patience and hardwork that had transformed the system in the engineering department of NAMA within her few years in the agency, adding that she had remained persistent in her profession. He said that given the opportunity and enabling environment, women like Agubata, would continue to excel in their endeavours. Akinkuotu also commended the leadership and members of APWEN for the investiture of Agubata as their 15th president, noting that it was an honour. In her inaugural speech, Agubata pledged to uphold the dignity of women engineers and to serve the entire engineering profession and humanity at large. She acknowledged the challenges ahead especially the expectations from the engineering community and stakeholders, and promised to focus on capacity building to mobilise necessary human and material resources and create value for the good of the society in line with the mission of APWEN. While acknowledging the tough environment where women are regarded as the weaker sex, she vowed to remain focused. She said, “Just think about your mother and her toils in your growing up years and the picture the 21st century woman who still plays the traditional role of a woman with joy and yet acquired the necessary professional skills. “There is no research work that has shown conclusively that one gender is stronger or weaker than the other, both sexes when given the exposures, training and orientation, the outcome will be very interesting. To guarantee continuous progress, both sexes must complement and support each other. This will ensure that our potential as one humanity is maximised across all spheres.” She said members of the association must also work together to meet the evolving needs of the society and to improve human experience and expand opportunities for the emerging woman. Agubata said APWEN would continue to encourage sound engineering practice and create an avenue for women engineers to collaborate with professionals across all disciplines in the country and globally. She said the association which was inaugurated in 1983 with current membership strength of 3000 registered female engineers, had consistently contributed to the encouragement of the girl child in taking up the sciences and mathematics to increase the prospects of studying engineering. Agubata also congratulated the immediate past President of the association, Hauwa Sadique, for a successful tenure and vowed to follow  her good examples by bringing on board more value, energy, creativity and innovation in all APWEN activities.