CNN International Commercial (CNNIC) and Dangote Industries are expanding their long-term partnership by renewing Dangote’s sponsorship within CNN Marketplace Africa, launching a new brand campaign on CNN TV and Digital, and – in a media-first – integrating Dangote Industries with a video series on cinematic storytelling network Great Big Story. This partnership makes Dangote Industries the first African brand to be part of Great Big Story, which was launched by CNN and Turner in 2015 to tell amazing stories that appeal to today’s global generation of intellectual, curious and connected consumers. Since launch, Great Big Story has told more than 1,650 original stories from over 95 countries, has over ten million fans around the world and has an average age audience of 29. Dangote is associated with the Great Big Story series Eyes on Africa, which tells the stories of individuals across the continent making a difference to their community. All videos are introduced with Dangote Industries branding and use sophisticated data-driven targeting to reach key audiences via social media, Great Big Story’s app and website, and on Apple TV, Roku and Amazon Fire TV. CNNIC has also extended Dangote Industries’ sponsorship within the continent’s flagship TV business show, CNN Marketplace Africa. Dangote now sponsors Profit Point, a segment within the weekly show which asks business leaders how they achieved success and when their companies reached profitability. In addition, CNNIC’s branded content studio, Create, will produce a 360-degree campaign called Touching Lives, comprising a new branded film to air on both CNN US and International TV networks, as well as documentaries and interactive content for a Dangote Industries content hub promoted using native advertising across CNN Digital. Touching Lives marks a departure from previous campaigns by telling the story of how Dangote’s multi-faceted business activities impact the lives of ordinary Africans. “Dangote Industries has been a true innovator for many years now, and we are delighted to extend its relationship with CNN with this media-first,” said Cathy Ibal, Vice President, Advertising Sales, CNN International Commercial. “This exciting new partnership is part of a wider trend amongst leading African brands who are moving towards creative marketing solutions that combine the very best in data, content and platforms. By harnessing the power of TV, digital and social across CNN and Great Big Story, Dangote Industries’ powerful message will resonate in Africa and beyond.” “Entrepreneurship holds the key to the future economic growth in Africa and at Dangote Group, we are passionate about creating African success stories,” said Aliko Dangote, President & Chief Executive, Dangote Industries. “Through this partnership, we aim to re-create the continent’s narrative, showcasing innovation, resourcefulness, resilience and more importantly; the success stories of our entrepreneurs who are challenging the status quo and breaking new business frontiers.” Source: Africa Business News