 …MAERSK, GAC, CHARKINS Others Bag NIMASA Achievement Awards … As agency awards its staff to promote professionalism L-R: Director General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Dr. Dakuku Peterside, Minister of Labour, Productivity and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi and the Board Chairman, NIMASA, Maj. Gen. Jonathan Garba (rtd) at the NIMASA Corporate Dinner and Awards Night held in Lagos. In recognition of the numerous contributions of Stakeholders to the growth and development of the maritime sector in Nigeria, the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) bestowed awards on outstanding maritime companies; Maersk Nigeria Limited, Gulf Agency Company (GAC) Nigeria Ltd, Charkins Maritime and Offshore Safety Centre among others, alongside some Staff of the Agency who have demonstrated commitment to the sector over the years.  According to the Director General of the Agency, Dr. Dakuku Peterside the awards were to identify and encourage industry players who have distinguished themselves and contributed to the development of the sector in the past year. This he said will further encourage and energize others to be active towards the growth of the blue economy.  The awards which was held at the Eko Hotels and Suites, Lagos at the weekend to honour stakeholders that have distinguished themselves in various categories such as; Shipping Company of the Year 2017 (Dry Cargo), Shipping Company of the Year 2017 (Wet Cargo), Maritime Education and Training Institute of the Year 2017, Manning Agent of the Year 2017, Seafarers’ Employer of the Year 2017 as well as the Agency’s best staff for the year and some others who have meritoriously served the agency for numerous years amongst others.  Speaking further, the DG also stated that the initiative is in line with the repositioning and restructuring drive of the current leadership of the Agency for the growth of the industry which is geared towards fostering a better relationship between the Agency and its key Stakeholders. L-R: Director, Special Duties (External Relations & Technical Co-operation), NIMASA, Hajia Lami Tumaka, The Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu and the Executive Director (Operations),NIMASA,  Engr. Rotimi Fashakin, FNSE at the NIMASA Corporate Dinner and Awards Night held in Lagos. Dr. Dakuku Peterside commended the awardees especially the long serving staff of the Agency for their efforts in building a viable maritime sector for Nigeria over the years through their selfless service and dedication. He charged the winners and all other stakeholders to continue to do more for the growth of the sector as this awards is a call to double our efforts.  “Today we will be honouring some of our best. We will be honouring those who have distinguished themselves, those who have laboured late at night to ensure that ships sail safe and berth on our shores. We will also be honouring industry stakeholders that have also contributed to the growth of this industry; every day by the little things we do, we contribute to the growth of the Nigerian economy. We are a major oil producing nation, but if our oil is not shipped out of this country, we would not bring any value to that God given gift, and so, we play different roles”, the DG said. Dr. Peterside also charged the staff of NIMASA to redouble their efforts in order to ensure that the tempo is sustained while he reiterated the Agency’s continued penchant for capacity building. “On our part as Management, we will ensure training remains priority and we enjoin all staff to key to the repositioning agenda of the current leadership of the Agency as this is the only way to ensure consistent growth and development of individuals and by extension the maritime sector,” he stressed. The NIMASA boss called on stakeholders to continue to support the cause of the Agency in repositioning the Nigeria maritime sector in line with global best practices and assured that there are better days ahead, saying “All I can say to you is that there are better days ahead; NIMASA can never go back to those dark days, it will be better in each passing day”. He also expressed appreciation to the Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi and the NIMASA Board led by Major General Jonathan India Garba (Rtd) who were both present, for their unrelenting support in the day to day running of the Agency. The high point was the presentation of a plaque and cheque of One Million Naira to the best staff of the year, 2017; Mr. Titus Ajayi from the Finance Department. The occasion was also graced by notable Nigerians, which include Oba of Lagos, His Royal Highness, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, and the Honourable Minister of Labour & Productivity, Senator Chris Ngige amongst others. The NIMASA dinner and awards night is an initiative to reward and recognize industry players and staff who have put in quality years of service and to encourage hard work amongst staff of the Agency.   