……as Olatunde Dodondawa emerges NAEC Chairman NAEC, the new Chairman, Dodondawa Olatunde Tajudeen, the Nigerian Tribune Newspapers 
The Association of Energy Correspondents of Nigeria (NAEC) has elected Mr Dodondawa Olatunde Tajudeen of the Nigerian Tribune Newspapers as the new Chairman of the association. Dodondawa with others who emerged as sole candidates for their positions include Sabastine Obasi of the Vanguard Newspapers as Secretary General, Simon Ugwu of Daily Times as Financial Secretary, Adewale Sanyaolu of the Sun newspapers as Treasurer while Ugo Amadi of the Champion newspapers won the position of Public relation officer in a keenly contested election. Ugo Amadi defeated Opeoluwani Akintayo of the Sweetcrude Reports and Felix Douglas by 12 to 5 and 3 votes respectively to emerge winner of the NAEC PRO election held at the association’s secretariat in Lagos at the weekend. The chairman of the electoral committee Mr. Emeka Ugwuanyi thanked the members of the association for their maturity and sincerity in conducting a seamless and most transparent election in Nigeria. Ugwuanyi called on Nigerian leaders to learn from NAEC how to run a transparent election The immediate past Chairman, Yunus Yusuf, thanked all for their unflinching support and overwhelming contributions towards the growth and successful development of the association in the last four years of his tenure. ‘’It is my greatest delight today to thank you for your trust and faith bestowed on me as the CHAIRMAN of this great association. With all the opportunities and challenges that come with my acceptance to serve you all, I am of the belief that the journey was not a smooth one, however, I thank our great leaders for their supports. I am proud to have been given the opportunity to serve as the CHAIRMAN between 2014 – 2018. I have enjoyed the last four years with a lot of supports and contributions from you distinguished members in providing active contributions towards taken the association to the next level’’, said Yunus. However, in his acceptance speech, Olatunde Dodondawa promised to consolidate on the trusts and achievements of the past regime and pledged to work with his team to take the association to the next level.