From Left: Valentine Obi, Founder/ Chief Executive Officer, eTranzact Plc; Dr. Felix Ohiwerei, Out-going Chairman, eTranzact Plc, Janet Ohiwerei, his wife and Wole Abegunde, Member, Board of Directors, eTranzact Plc; during the dinner party held in honour of Dr. Felix Ohiwerei, at Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, on Friday, February 9, 2018 eTranzact International PLC, a leading provider of mobile banking and payment services, at a dinner party celebrated Dr. Felix Ohiwerei, its pioneering and out-going chairman who has distinguished himself as a leader worthy of emulation. The celebration which was in grand style and well attended by the board, management and staff of eTranzact, friends and stakeholders in the e-payment industry, was held at Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, on Friday, February 9, 2018. It was an evening of music, fun, networking and sharing of ideas, a pleasurable moment where the life and achievements of the celebrant was shared. Members of the board of the company also highlighted the contributions of Dr. Ohiwerei to the development of the organization. Speaking at the event, Mr. Valentine Obi, Founder/Chief Executive Officer, eTranzact, said the exemplary life of Dr. Ohiwerei, his goodwill, strong commitment to innovation and creativity was a major factor that fostered the success recorded by the organization over the years. Obi further affirmed that Dr. Ohiwerei was a source of encouragement and inspiration that triggered him to move ahead in the early days of his business.  “He has mentored me in many ways and l pray that God should keep him, so that l can learn more from him,” he stated. He attributed Dr. Ohiwerei’s enviable qualities to his series of trainings and self-discipline, which has earned him the reputation garnered as the chairman of the company and also in the e-payment industry. Wole Abegunde, a member of the Board of Directors, testified to the good qualities of the celebrant, his intelligent ideas that has left many amazed and has been the bedrock of the numerous achievements made by eTranzact. In his response to the accolades showered on him, Dr. Ohiwerei commended eTranzact for honoring him and prayed that the virtues he left behind should be sustained. He stated “with profound gratitude, l laud Mr. Obi and the management of the company for their concern in appreciating the innovative and creative ideas l introduced in ensuring that eTranzact remains the leader in e-payment in the country.” Dr. Ohiwerei who hails from Uzebba in Owan Local Government of Edo State, has had a distinguished business career, both locally and internationally with vast knowledge of the terrain he operates. He attended University College, Ibadan (now University of Ibadan) and holds an Honorary Doctor of Laws Degree (LL.D) from the same institution. He is a Fellow, Nigerian Marketing Association; Fellow, Geography Society of Nigeria; Fellow, Institute of Directors; and Fellow, Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria. He is also a recipient of the Zik’s Prize in Leadership Award, the Order of Orange Nassau by the Queen of the Netherlands and Officer of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (OFR) among other recognitions. The e-payment company which was established in September 2003 has evolved into a brand with global reach extending its innovative services to include products which cut across virtually all aspects of the e-payment platform such as Mobile, Web, ATM, and Point of Sales (POS) terminals. eTranzact currently partners and has real-time connection with over 50 commercial banks and 350 microfinance Institutions across Africa. They are also a leading Third-Party Processor (TPP) for MasterCard in Africa, and a major MTO hub in Africa, providing secure, convenient and low cost local and International funds remittance program in the continent. It currently has operations in Nigeria, South Africa, and Ghana with cutting-edge solutions based on security, convenience and affordability.  