Fidelity Bank received the Corporate Governance Rating System (CGRS) Certification from the Nigerian Stock Exchange (The NSE), an affirmation of the Bank’s integrity and trust amongst investors, shareholders and customers. L-R: Executive Director, Commercial and Consumer Banking, South Fidelity Bank Plc. Aku Odinkemelu; Chairman, Fidelity Bank Plc. Ernest Ebi; President, Council of Nigerian Stock Exchange Chris Ogunbanjo at the presentation of Corporate Governance Rating System (CGRS) certification to Directors of Fidelity Bank in Lagos. L-R: Kayode Olowoniyi, Ex Director, Fidelity Bank Plc; Nnaeto Orazulike Former Director, Fidelity Bank. Plc. ; Executive Director, Commercial and Consumer Banking, South Fidelity Bank Plc. Aku Odinkemelu; Chairman, Fidelity Bank Plc. Ernest Ebi; Executive Director, Lagos & South-West, Fidelity Bank Plc, Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe; Alex Ojukwu, Non-Executive Director, Fidelity Bank Plc; Chris Ogunbanjo, President, Council of Nigerian Stock Exchange at the presentation of Corporate Governance Rating System (CGRS) certification to Directors of Fidelity Bank in Lagos. About Fidelity Bank Plc: Fidelity Bank Plc began operations in 1988 as Fidelity Union Merchant Bank Limited. By 1990, it had distinguished itself as the fastest growing merchant bank in the country. However, to leverage the emerging opportunities in the commercial and consumer end of financial services in Nigeria, in 1999, it converted to commercial banking and changed its name to Fidelity Bank Plc. It became a universal bank in February 2001, with a license to offer the entire spectrum of commercial, consumer, corporate and investment banking services. Fidelity Bank is today ranked amongst the top 10 in the Nigerian banking industry, with presence in the major cities and commercial centres of Nigeria. Over the years, the bank has been reputed for integrity and professionalism. It is also respected for the quality and stability of its management. Fidelity staff are also respected in the Nigerian banking industry for the quality of training they receive on the job, as well as in good business schools both in Nigeria and Overseas. The Management is particular about the quality of people that join the system.