First Bank of Nigeria Limited has announced its sponsorship of the 2018 Social Media Week (SMW), Lagos, scheduled to take place from February 26 through to March 2, 2018 at the Landmark event centre, Victoria Island, Lagos and WE ARE HERE FOR IT!!! Here are 5 Reasons why you should be on the look of out for them this year. 1) They will be activating a Digital Lounge at the event where you can experience first-hand some of the newest technologies in the digital space such as the Amazon Echo, Google Glasses, Drone Technology, Virtual Reality Games and so much more, 2) They will be inviting trendy ‘digital geeks’ who will work you through the step by step process of how to activate any of their digital products. Learn first-hand how to enjoy quick banking with *894#. Attendees will also have the opportunity to participate in the FirstBank ‘Expressions on cards’ campaign and can pick up their customized cards at the event. 3)  They will be giving away loads and loads of FREEBIES including the iPhone X, cash prizes, airtime and one-month free DSTV subscription via FirstMobile! 4) They will be hosting some ‘techpreneurs’ who will be sharing with you some of their exciting innovative products and services. Don’t miss out on this opportunity! 5) And Finally, the icing on the cake is the panel they are organizing on Monday February 26th. The panel moderator is the youthful, trendy and financially savvy Founder of Nairametrics- Ugo Dre. The panelists include: Team Lead Product Design at FirstBank Digital Lab – MunachimsoDuru; CEO, Cowrywise –  Razaq Ahmed; and CEO, Fint.ng -Chiwete John-Njokanma. They will be discussing exciting ways that both the formal and informal sectors can bank the ‘unbanked’. Truth is that #FirstBankisDigital. It is determined to power both business and pleasure at this year’s social media week activation the digital way. They are committed to leveraging the opportunity social media provides to deploy cutting-edge technology, deliver seamless banking services and a delightful customer experience We will be looking out for them and we encourage you to register to attend: www.firstbanknigeria.com/sponsorship/socialmediaweek/#register