 The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, has said that relatives of police officers who died and those who sustained injuries while on duty since 2016 have not been able to get any form of insurance compensation. Idris, who was represented by the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Administration, Lagos, Ayuba Elkanah, said this during the consumers interactive session organised by the National Insurance Commission, with the theme, “Improving insurance service delivery to consumers,” in Lagos on Thursday. “Insurance payment has been stopped to the police since 2016; also, since we keyed into the accident insurance cover, no kobo has been paid to any policeman,” he stated. He explained that the reason given for the rejection of cover by the insurance companies was that premiums were not paid on the policies by the government. According to him, the police had their insurance cover and compensation in place since 1992 and it used to be quite easy to get claims. But since the underwriting industry started to implement its ‘no premium, no cover’ policy, the IGP regretted that getting compensation had become tough for policemen and their relatives. He noted that most policemen were not aware of the issues surrounding their insurance cover, because the insurance companies were only concentrating on the headquarters of the police, leaving the vast majority of the officers and men spread across the country without information. According to him, it is important for the underwriters to get closer to the policemen in different regions of the country. While reacting to this, the Deputy Commissioner, Technical, National Insurance Commission, Mr. Sunday Thomas, said the institutions that were affected by the ‘no premium, no cover’ scheme did not need to stick to the January renewal date of their policies. He observed that due to delays in passing national budgets every year, there might be delays by the government in allocating funds to settle the annual premium of the group life policy.