L  – R shows Oscar N. Onyema, OON, Chief Executive Officer, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) presenting a replica of the closing gong to Mr. John Coumantaros, Chairman, Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc, during the Facts Behind the Issue presentation at the Exchange today The management of Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc has concluded all registration process with regulatory authorities to engaged the Nigerian Stock Exchange and its dealing members,  regarding the group’s ongoing N39.9billion Rights Issue Programme. The Management is seeking to strengthen its capital position,  via the Rights Issue, through the facilitation of the reduction of debt and provide working capital. Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc during the Facts Behind Issue presentation at the Exchange today assured stakeholders in the capital market that the company will continue to sustain its growth pattern for a profitable return on investments for existing and prospective investors. Chairman of the company, Mr John Coumantaros gave this assurance on Thursday February 1, 2018, during the Facts behind the right issue of N39.9 billion presentation at the Nigerian Stock Exchange in Lagos.  Flour Mills of Nigeria Rights Issue, opened on January, 15, 2018, and will close on Wednesday, February 21, 2018. The Rights Issue is being undertaken to enable the company deleverage its balance sheet, support working capital needs, and position the company to exploit value-accretive opportunities. Other details of the offer includes, issue size, 1,476,142,418 ordinary shares of 50 kobo each at N27.00 per share, at the ratio of 9 new Ordinary Shares for every 16 Ordinary Shares of 50 kobo each held as at the close of business on 8 December 2017. The rights is offered at 23 percent   discount to the stock’s closing price on December 8, 2017. On how to participate in the right issue, for existing qualified shareholders, complete the rights issue form indicating full acceptance, partial acceptance or requesting additional rights, make payment for the total rights taken either cheque or bank transfer either directly to the Registrars or preferably through the stockbroker. A well-diversified and highly successful integrated food business, Floormills’ results shown high double-digit y/y growth (320% y/y) in post-tax profit to NGN3.6 billion. The net profit almost tripled our estimate, and was above consensus by 28%. Gross margin surprised to record high (since Q4-13/14), beating our estimate by 470 bps, while opex, though higher by 17% y/y, trailed our estimate by 19%. Revenue was lower by 4% y/y and 13.6% q/q, as pricing effect has fully tapered. We should also note the effect of seasonality, recovering competition, pricing pressure in the Agro-allied division (sugar and fertilizer), and the gridlock in Apapa factory road, on sales revenue. The Food (9% y/y) and Port Operations (58% y/y) divisions recorded revenue growth while lower sales were recorded in the Agro-allied (-33% y/y), Packaging (-43% y/y), and Real Estate (-NGN63 million revenue) divisions. Overall, compared to our estimate, the reported revenue was lower by 8%.L  – R shows Tony Ibeziako, Ag. Head, Listings Business Division, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Oscar N. Onyema, OON, Chief Executive Officer, NSE; Mr. John Coumantaros, Chairman, Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc and Paul Gbededo, Group Managing Director, Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc during the Facts Behind Issue presentation at the Exchange today The 20% y/y increase in gross profit was on the backdrop of faster decline in cost of sales (-8% y/y) relative to revenue, and a 322 bps expansion of gross margin (GM) to record high of c.16%. The first y/y expansion of gross margin in the current year may have been underpinned by stable FX condition, broadly softer commodities prices, and better energy mix from improved gas availability. Operating expenses increased by 16.8% y/y and 7.3% q/q, with the margins also rising by 87 bps and 94 bps respectively. Admin expenses remain the driver of opex growth, with personnel/related spend and general admin expenses being the major pressure points. Increasing competition and the Apapa traffic situation are yet to reflect in marketing and distribution costs (-3% y/y). Finance costs were higher by 31% y/y and 21% q/q, and beat our estimate by 20%. The higher-than-expected finance costs reflect the NGN12.6 billion q/q increase in gross debt to NGN200.81 billion, representing net inflow from the commercial papers issued in December. Overall, whilst noting concern from the still-elevated finance costs, FLOURMILL’s result is impressive, in light of the higher and lower than expected gross margin and opex, respectively. We expect further upward revision to 2018F earnings estimates and positive investor reaction, on higher annualized net profit of N16 billion, compared to consensus’ N13.9 billion. Our estimates are under review.