The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) is an independent agency of the United States government has just approved a tiny Company call NanoCrstal Electricity to go ahead with planed operations. This new NanoCrystal Electricity revolution and the speed it’s coming at us will be one of the biggest technology transformations of our lifetime.
How it works…
The staggering brilliance behind this new NanoCrystal Electricity
This is what scientists use to denote the entire range of “light” in the universe.
Most of the light on the spectrum is invisible to the naked eye.
But it exists all around us in the form of “waves.” The longest of these are radio waves. They can span the length of an entire football field.
Of course, when you’re listening to music on the radio – those are radio waves creating the sound.
Today we also use radio waves to capture images on television, and to connect with Wi-Fi and Bluetooth – among other things.But nobody ever thought of taking those same radio waves… and turning them into electricity. Therefore, every nation on Earth is on the verge of being completely transformed by NanoCrystal Electricity. NanoCrystal Electricity Company is a profoundly disruptive technology that has been wisely building long-term relationships with highly advanced semi-conductor firms.
According to the source, with NanoCrystal Electricity, everything will magically run everywhere – and anywhere – on its own. “This is critical for NanoCrystal Electricity to work properly. In order for magic charging to work without power cords, plugs, or batteries, there must be communication between the wireless transmitter and all the devices that need to be charged. What this new magic electricity is capable of doing will absolutely blow you away. Imagine the freedom you could soon enjoy… in the future that will lead to…
No more cords…
No more HDMI connectors, power strips, and routers…
No more wires and plugs…
No more batteries…this new NanoCrystal Electricity is going to put an end to the combustion engine and send electric car production through the roof. NanoCrystal Electricity is going to spread around the world like a rocket that why the Company holding 53 patents – with another 200 pending against any smart guys. Can you imagine the new wealth that will be created by this new NanoCrystal Electricity when it’s fully integrated into society – not just in the United States but around the world? Their revolutionary technology is about to fully commercialize NanoCrystal Electricity and bring it onto the world stage. This tiny firm is at the very center of what could be the biggest change to civilization you’ve witnessed in your lifetime. They have a stranglehold on the entire wireless power market with 53 patents with another 200 coming. The Federal Government of Nigeria needs connects on the NanoCrystal Electricity Revolution to subdue our greatest enemy in the country Nigeria Electricity alias “Never Expects Power Always” to the bottomless pits? According to analyst, this one tiny company could be looking at $6.3 billion in orders as this groundbreaking new power goes live  Research Opinions: Personal Computer started in1975 reached Nigeria 1990 Internet started in 1983 reached Nigeria 2000 Cells Phone started in 1973 reached Nigeria 1997 GPS (Global Positioning System) started in 1995 reached 2017 partially Bitcoin started in 2007 reached Nigeria 2017 NanoCrystal Electricity has officially started 2017; when will it reached Nigeria……?