 The Valentine’s Day celebration hit the Senate chamber in a dramatic form on Wednesday. The day’s plenary began on a dramatic note when the Majority Whip, Senator Sola Adeyeye, was calling members of the chamber to order for the session to start properly. Adeyeye called the attention of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, to three senators – Dino Melaye, Oluremi Tinubu and Monsurat Sunmonu – who were in red to reflect the Valentine’s mood. Celebrators of the day are usually dressed in red and white. The Chief Whip said, “Senator Oluremi Tinubu from Lagos-Central; the original ‘Ajekun iya’ from Kogi-West, Senator Dino Melaye; and from from Oyo-Central, Senator Monsurat Sunmonu are reflecting the Valentine’s spirit. The chamber is now set for today’s session.” Opening the session, President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, said, “Thank you, the Chief Whip, for your observation.” Saraki later asked Melaye to move a motion for the adoption of the Votes and Proceedings of the last legislative day (Tuesday). Doing so, Melaye said he was moving the motion himself and in collaboration with Tinubu. Saraki then asked Tinubu to second the motion, saying, “Ranking Senator Oluremi Tinubu, the Valentine’s of the chamber.” Rising to second the motion, Tinubu said, “Mr. President, thank you for inviting me but I should be the one to move the motion because, one, I’m a ranking senator, senior to your beloved son (Melaye).” She accused Saraki of being partial as she was the best dressed. According to her, paper from the touch of red on their dresses, her dress particularly had red rose prints on it. “If you look at me, I have roses all over but he doesn’t even have a single rose. But since I am not your son, I will still gladly second the motion as ably moved by your beloved son.” Melaye was dressed in red jacked, black pant and black bow tie; Tinubu was in a black gown made of Ankara fabric with patches of rose together with a red scalf; Sunmonu was in a formal red dress with black collar.