Africa Prudential plc, Managing Director/CEO, Mr. Peter Ashade, The Management of Africa Prudential Plc, has unveiled USSD code, *4018# tagged “Personal Registrar” in line with its determination to dominate and redefine the landscape of registrar service delivery in the country,. The USSD code, *4018#, which was unveiled in Lagos on Wednesday enables shareholders to perform  a lot of tasks including checking their outstanding dividend, shareholding balance, confirming bank mandate right from their mobile phones from the comfort of their homes, work places or leisure.  With the code, shareholders can also check postal and email addresses from their mobile phones.  Speaking about the product, the Managing Director/CEO, Mr. Peter Ashade, explained that the service, which is available round the clock, works on all kinds of mobile phones and networks, and does not require internet data, adding that shareholders only need to dial the code to access the service environment.  He noted that the “Personal Registrar” was developed by the company in its drive to persistently pursue exceptional service experience and is borne out of its culture of excellence and persistent drive to improving investors’ confidence in the market, adding, “We continuously embark on product development and process improvement to deliver exceptional customer experience to our clients across sectors of the economy, while exciting the Nigerian capital market as a whole.”  Ashade stated further that at the announcement of the company’s change of name from Africa Prudential Plc to Africa Prudential Registrars Plc in 2017, it was emphasized that the name change does not imply its exit from registrar business but was rather to enable it extend service offerings to other sectors of the economy by leveraging technology, one of which is the just launched USSD code *4018#.  Mr. Emmanuel Nnorom, a Non-Executive Director, stressed that the development of the product was not just about Africa Prudential, but remains a plus for the entire registrar business in Nigeria and encouraged other players in the market to follow suit in breaking new grounds.  Mrs. Bridget Bayo-Ajayi, Head, Business Development, who also addressed key capital market stakeholders at the event,  encouraged shareholders whose mobile numbers have not been duly registered on the company’s database to execute a shareholder data update form for their mobile numbers to enjoy the service.  Representing shareholders at the event, Mrs. Bisi Bakare of Pragmatic Shareholders Association, lauded Africa Prudential for putting shareholders convenience first by launching the first-of-its-kind product in registrars business.  It would be recalled, among others that the company was named the Best Registrar Firm in West Africa by Africa-Canada Trade Alliance at the 7th Edition of the West Africa Innovation and Excellence Awards in 2017 in recognition of outstanding innovations and advocacy role in the Capital Market. About Africa Prudential Plc: Africa Prudential Plc is a leading share registration firm, investor and business support services provider in Nigeria; and the only listed on the NSE; specializing in customer-focused, technologically driven service for corporations. Africa Prudential is driving change within the industry and delivering world-class service in the Nigerian capital market. With this modern approach to service, the company is breaking new grounds in innovative business support solutions in Nigeria. For more information visit www.africaprudential.com