Farmforte, a budding Nigerian Agriculture startup was the cynosure of all eyes at the just concluded Fruit Logistica in Berlin, Germany which is the largest fruit and vegetable exhibition on the planet. Fruit Logistica covers all sectors of the global Fresh produce trade and provides comprehensive insight of the latest innovations, products and services in the international supply chain. Showcasing its signature product , the Orange Fleshed Sweet Potatoes to the over 76,000 participants at the 3 day event, Farmforte’s pavilion generated loads of interest from visitors which were mainly players across the supply chain of the food industry in Europe. They were apprised about Farmforte’s use of technology in crop production and processing, its innovative value addition model as well as creation of market access for its produce. Farmforte’s approach to agriculture has been lauded for its uniqueness given that it plays across the value chain of specific well researched agricultural produce types in which Nigeria has an unmatched comparative advantage and yet barely harnesses the potential. For instance, its focus on Sweet Potatoes which would have it planting over 5000 hectares of Sweet Potatoes in 2018 to meet its demand case, has seen it create outstanding value added products from Sweet Potato chips to flours to purees and others which it markets alongside raw tubers which are a big hit across the European continent. Interestingly, Nigeria is the second largest Sweet Potato producer in the world after China but barely exported any tubers until Farmforte came on stream. It is also very telling that Farmforte was the First and only Nigerian company represented at Fruit Logistica which had thousands of reputable Agro companies from over 120 countries across the globe. Commenting on the exhibition, the Co-Founder and co-CEO, Farmforte, Osazuwa Osayi remarked, “It has been a huge success, we are delighted to showcase our produce and Nigeria to the world. At Farmforte, we believe that Africa’s greatest opportunity to play on the global scene lies in Agriculture”. He added “With global populations projected to increase to over 9 billion by 2050, our focus is on enhancing food security, sustainability and inclusive development by working with smallholder farmers across Nigeria and ultimately across Africa”. With the reception received at Fruit Logistica and the strong partnerships created, Farmforte is poised to pioneer the export of top quality Fresh Produce positioning Nigeria in a class that is comparative with the best Agro exporting countries in Africa like Kenya and South Africa. Through one of its subsidiaries, SP3P Hub Agro Allied Ltd, it is set to develop a state of the art Sweet Potato park in Edo State which would have farms, a tissue culture lab and an end to end processing facility, amongst others. Besides Sweet Potatoes, Farmforte grows and sources a wide range of other fruits, vegetables, grains and commodities which include green peas, sweet corn, beans, papaya, mango’s, plantains, field maize, cassava, cocoa, cashew nuts, sesame seeds, soya beans and hibiscus.