Labour has expressed support for President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to pay the  recovered $322 million Abacha loot as cash transfer to poor homes through Conditional Cash Transfers (CCT). National Union of Textile Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN) General Secretary,  Comrade Issa Aremu frowned at the call by the National Assembly on the executive arm of government to pay the repatriated money into the Consolidated Revenue Account and be distributed to the federating units in line with the revenue sharing formula. Aremu said the recovered loot from Switzerland was negotiated to be used for World Bank-assisted Social Investment Programme (SIP) through cash transfer to the poor. He observed that it was wise that the Federal Government gave the poorest the cash as a matter of right rather than what he called undignified handouts by some corrupt politicians. He urged the National Assembly to partner the executive arm through the Federal Character Commission to ensure that the cash transfer was not limited to the poor households in 19 states alone, but must be spread to  the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in line with the Federal Character principle. He urged the Federal Government to channel more energy into wealth generation rather than refuting controversial reports of the Brookings Report on the poverty level in Nigeria. Aremu said poverty level denial must give way to sustainable policies to eradicate wants and deprivations in the midst of abundance for few privileged rich. He said the Federal Government must initiate a holistic programme of wealth generation and wealth distribution instead of poverty reduction. He said: “The poor know that the key to eradicating poverty is wealth creation. What Nigeria needs is wealth creation, which calls for a halt to existing de-industrialisation. We need sustainable job-led growth not the existing jobless growth. Industry must be revived to generate enough goods and services. When supply exceeds demand, price must fall. When people work, they must earn wages enhancing their purchasing power for produced goods and services. The poor don’t need charity. What they need is value addiction based incomes.”