The Future Of Energy; Techno oil is an integrated, wholly indigenous company which today holds a diverse portfolio of prime investment in oil and gas, energy, infrastructure and manufacturing. Techno Oil’s strategic assets base has continued to generate a steady cash flow for the organization with year on year increase in profitability for shareholders as well as value added services to its partners and customers, leading to growth in Nigerian’s economy. The past 20 years has seen Techno Oil emerge to become a leader in the oil & gas downstream sector of Nigerian petroleum industry. Techno Oil has contributed immensely to the oil and gas industry which led to its becoming a dominant player in the downstream sub sector. Techno Oil supports national aspirations and helps to deepen the Nigerian economy through supply of petroleum products to the downstream, commercials and industry consumers. Mrs Nkechi Obi, Techno Oil Limited, Executive Vice Chairman, a distinguished Member of the Order of Niger (MON).  Mrs Obi is gifted with remarkable Managerial skills with core professional in strategy and business development. She is a seasoned entrepreneur/ business coach and a trained economist person. She had a distinguished career in Mobil Oil Nigeria Plc before venturing into private business. The Vice Chairman is an alumnus of Lagos Business School and Harvard school of Business. She is a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Management. Mrs Obi said the techno oil started with highly experienced workers who are veterans in the petroleum industry. Our workforce is vital to our overall success, she added. While disclosing that the company has a total of over 500 staff work in general multi-disciplinary groups, comprising: chemical, electrical and mechanical engineers as well as accountants and economists. Career development and training programmes are encouraged to allow employees to work in a wide variety of fields. As a company aspiring to play globally, opportunities for overseas training exist. Every effort is made to match the skills available with those required as well as encouraging creativity to improve quality of work. The key human resource objective is to attract, develop and retain quality employees in support of our business. She reiterated that the Board remains focused on building organisational capacity and improving risk management and corporate governance, without compromising Techno Oil’s entrepreneurial culture. “At Techno Oil, we are dedicated to adding value to our customers, stakeholders and the Nigeria economy, through the supply of fuel, blending of ISO certified lubricants that meets and exceed international standards, a solution provider directed at bridging the infrastructural gaps that has hindered Liquefied Petroleum Gas(LPG) adoption and other wide range of petroleum products that power industries. “Techno Oil has built an impressive track record and has achieved a strong brand presence in the market, which can be attested to by our customers. Techno Oil continues to develop and build on its core values competencies. We have improved our services with highly automated facilities to dispense petroleum products to our teeming customers. “At Techno oil, we are dedicated to adding value to our customers, stakeholders and the Nigeria economy, through the supply of fuel, blending of ISO certified lubricants that’s meets and exceed international standards, a solution provider directed at bridging the infrastructural gaps that has hindered LPG adoption and other wide range of petroleum products that power industries. Techno Oil Strategic Assets: “Techno Oil’s operation and scope of business are guided by the highest standards in line with international best practices, validated by its NIS ISO 9001: 2008 Certification and recognition by national and global organizations as well as government’ s regulatory agencies. Engr Tony Onyeama, Managing Director is supporting the vice chairman and saddled with operational responsibility of the company. Tony is a core tribologist, an enterprising marketer with over 20 years of experience in the Oil & Gas Sector and accomplished manager of men. He is an alumnus of the prestigious Lagos Business School. Techno Oil’s fuel depot with a capacity of 60 million litres terminal is the fuel storage arm where all fuels marketed by the company are received, stored and eventually distributed. The Techno Oil terminal services retail outlets, commercial and industrial channels. Techno Oil’s terminal holds various products in storage such as: Techno Oil operates a 200-meter two finger jetty facility at Kirikiri Lighter Terminal in Apapa, Lagos. This enables us to receive imports, handle and store petroleum products through coastal supplies and supply tanker trucks. We have a highly efficient petroleum products fuel storage facility (Tank Farm). To maintain the highest international standards, Techno Oil strictly adheres to the oil companies’ guidelines, issued by the Joint Inspection Group (JIG) and the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR’s) “Guidelines for Fuel Quality Control and Operating Procedures”. To ensure utmost safety, operational efficiency and security, the following facilities were installed: Process Automated, Control System & Automated Tank Gauging System. Techno oil offers a wide range of petroleum products that conform to international standards, to ensure optimum performance for our customers. We are a major supplier of Diesel, Petrol, Gas Oil, Marine Gas Oil, Marine Fuel Oil, Kerosene, Propane, Butane and Fuel Oil in Nigeria. Popularly known as Gasoline or Petrol, is primarily used as fuel in internal combustion engines. It consists mostly of aliphatic hydrocarbons obtained by the fractional distillation of petroleum. Techno Oil markets its petroleum products through its strategically located retail outlets spread across Nigeria. The company has been able to achieve adequate supply of PMS to its customers even in times of scarcity. Also known as diesel, AGO is ideal for road vehicles (trucks, buses, vans and cars) powered by diesel engines. It can also be used to power generators. The fuel is obtained in the mid-boiling range of the distillation process of crude oil. Kerosene is a very versatile product when in a pure state and used to power jet engine aircraft (jet fuel) and some rockets, it is known as Aviation Turbine Kerosene (ATK). When it is used as a domestic fuel for lamps, stove, cookers and the likes, it is known as Household Kerosene (HHK). When the product is adapted for use for both purposes, it is known as Dual Purpose Kerosene (DPK). Techno Oil operates a 10,000 metric ton ultra-modern lubricant blending plant located at Lekki Lagos. Techno lubricant is in a wide range of packs, from 800ml to 250 litres. The plant has a large warehouse that stocks over 15,000 metric tons of packed lubricants and open storage of over 150 metric tons of drums. Techno Oil’s range of lubricants is of high quality, with advanced protection and specially blended for cars driven on Nigerian roads. They are blended for all modern petrol and diesel engines, including turbo charged ones. They have exceptional antiwear and anticorrosion properties with very high detergency and dispersion, hence increased capacity to limit oil thickening due to sort. The lubricants are certified by the American Petroleum Institute and the International Standards Organisation (ISO).  Techno Oil Lubricants have for over a decade, stood for high quality and they come in a range, which includes engines oil, gear oils, hydraulic oils and greases. Our automotive, industrial, marine and heavy duty engine oils meet the needs of engines oil manufacturers (EOM) around the globe. Some of our high quality industrial lubricants are: Techno oil’s range of lubricants provides finished lubricants and premium base oils to commercial, consumer, industrial and marine customers in Nigeria. From motor oil for the family car to lubricants for heavy industrial equipment, our customers trust our products to deliver excellent, reliable performance in a wide range of operating conditions. Quality mono-grade engine designed for general purpose application in gasoline and diesel engines specially recommended for older running engines. Recommended drain interval after 3,000km This is a high quality premium multigrade engine oil for high performance gasoline engine, turbo-charged and naturally aspirated diesel engine, suitable for use in modern gasoline and diesel engines where API SJ or API CG-4 performance standard and OEMs warranty specifications are required. Recommended drain interval after 10,000km. This is a premium quality multi-grade engine oil gasoline engine requiring turbo charged and naturally aspirated diesel engine. This is recommended for passenger cars and light trucks, especially in severe weather conditions. Recommended drain interval after 7,000km. This is heavy mono-grade premium engine oil applicable for severe duty in naturally aspirated turbo charged diesel engine with high sulphur fuels. It is highly recommended for mixed fleet applications. It is also suitable as a hydraulic and compressor fluid in wide range of construction equipment. Recommended drain interval after 8,000km. It is a premium quality transmission fluid suitable for most automatic transmission systems where Mercon/dextron 11 is recommended. Premium quality Gear Oil developed for manual transmissions and gear boxes, standard differentials, manual steering boxes, final drives, universal joints and all other automotive units where API GL-5 gear boxes are recommended. This is low-ash superior detergent oil developed specifically for your horsepower petrol driven two stroke engines. Techno Industrial Lubes are blended from high quality base oils and additives for severe practical applications. This is premium-quality multi-purpose hydraulic oil recommended for use in a wide range of severe, heavy duty industrial and mobile hydraulic applications requiring an anti-wear fluid. It is recommended for use in applications where anti-wear properties are required such as bearings and gears. This is premium-quality extreme-pressure industrial gear oil High Quality Industrial gear oil suitable for industrial enclosed gears whenever extreme pressure gear oils are required. Techno Gear EP Oils are ideal for heavy loaded gear sets and for gears which are subject to shock loading Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) CylindersTechno Oil Gas Plant Techno Oil runs and operates an automatic digital Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) bottling plant in several locations across the country. Our operations are modern with appropriate communication tools for efficient service delivery. Our services include:  Quality and safety control Our LPG Bottling Plant has its in-built stringent safety and quality system controls at different stages. The quality control checks at the bottling plant are carried out in three stages: Pre- filling Quality Control Checks, Post-filling Quality Checks, and Statistical Quality Control Checks.  Loyalty Club Card Techno Gas Loyalty Club is an innovative and strategic customer service initiative, specially designed to provide our loyal customers value for money. A Techno Gas membership card assures our customers of reliable supply, discounted price and free cylinder maintenance  SWAP ‘N’ GO (A Techno Gas LPG Cylinder Exchange Identity) Techno Gas SWAP ‘N’ GO, is the operating identity of the newly launched Techno Gas Parlour, a Techno Oil LPG cylinder refill and exchange programme pioneered to create and add value to the domestic LPG industry chain. She said the objective of Techno Gas SWAP ‘N’ GO is to make Gas purchase experience worthwhile. It also guarantees cylinder safety and maintenance by ensuring that all returning cylinders are properly checked and serviced before further use.  LPG Skid PlantThe Techno Oil LPG Skid Plant Project was conceived by the need to close the gap in deepening LPG adoption in Nigeria. Accessibility, Availability and Affordability had remained a critical challenge in the switch campaign with no solution on sight. In our innovative and creative prowess, Techno oil recently deployed over 50 units of LPG Skid mounted tanks across the country with a view to ending the age long tripodal challenge that has hindered the deepening of LPG adoption  Techno oil has built the first fully indigenous automated LPG cylinder manufacturing plant at Kajola, Lagos, Nigeria. The plant has a capacity to produce over 5 million pieces of high quality LPG cylinders annually. The cylinders are in different sizes of 3kg, 6kg, 12.5kg, and 50kg and so on. It is our expectation that with the commissioning of the plant, LPG cylinders would no more be imported into Nigeria This milestone project is an effort to deepen the LPG adoption in Nigeria and switch households from the use of fire woods or kerosene to the use of LPG which is safer, cleaner, healthier and cheaper to use as a source of domestic energy. Our expertise in the LPG value chain and commitment to redefining the industry landscape and create value for all stakeholders necessitated our strategic investment in the construction of a 12,000-metric ton LPG storage Terminal. This multi-billion-naira facility will receive and store LPG in bulk from global oil traders, with a view to stabilizing the market by continuously making product available for distribution to power the economy.  The Caption Photo:  The Techno Oil Limited, Executive Vice Chairman, Mrs Nkechi Obi 