In other to benefit from the federal government policy of economy diversification to agricultures from petroleum economy base, the management of Nigerian Aviation Handling Company plc (NAHCO aviance ), the integrated solutions for Aviation and Cargo Handling Services has positioning their operation toward achieving higher agricultural exports that are likely to be experience during the harvest season. The Chairman of Nigerian Aviation Handling Company plc (NAHCO Aviance) Arc Usman Arabi Bello during the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Abuja said to be able to fully maximize this advantage, the public and more particularly, exporters, would require serious enlightenment on the numerous benefits of exporting through air. Arc Bello disclosed that the NAHCO Free Zone (NFZ) just completed design of the master plan for the phase 2 development adding that the NFZ phase 2 will consolidate the growth trajectory of the business which is key to our overall diversification strategy going forward. NFZ is also yielding revenue from phase 1 which is currently operating at almost full capacity, he noted. The Chairman pointed out that NIMET already advised that February rains experienced in many parts of the country would translate to abundant harvest. This should lead to more exports. NAHCO cargo export division has positioned itself to take advantage of this, he added.  For 2017, the profit before tax is N600 011 000 while profit after tax stood at N775 767 000. The percentage reduction in gross revenue between 2015 and 2016 stands at 6.4 percent while that of 2016 and 2017 stands at 0.4 percent. With this, he said, we are positive that the company will bounce back to improved revenue by the end of the current financial year, 2018. Management and Board of the Directors of the company basis of this result have proposed to you shareholders of the payment of N406 million dividends which translate to 25 kobo per each ordinary shareholding. In the same vein, he inform the shareholders that mr Kelvin O’Connar, of IDI Ireland, our technical partners of NFZ, who has been the acting managing director/chief executive officer of NFZ has resigned from the acting MD/CEO role last month in line with the Agreement between NFZ and IDI. IDI will continue to provide technical support to NFZ in line with the development plan. Consequently, the board of NFZ has approved the appointment of Mallam Baba Yusuf as the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) of the NFZ. Chairman also disclosed that NAHCO Energy Power and Infrastructure (EPI) has commenced start-up activities and would begin operations soon. We will update shareholders as we proceed, he added. In line with his Chairman, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) Idris Yakubu said we would continue to take the challenge of industry leadership with humility, but with all the seriousness it deserves. He said in 2017, our business, like many others, faced several challenges, which affected the operating environment, a situation made worse by the rising cost of doing business and the intense desire to survive by players. Yakubu said despite all the odds, our company has remained strong and focused with its dynamic Board and the Management Team united, by a shared vision to excel, win and to lead.  