National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, on Wednesday said that the adoption of the principles of justice and fairness will be the way forward to resolve the differences in the party. Oshiomhole also noted that apart from upholding the principles of fairness and justice, the party would courageously stand by the truth to overcome its problems. The APC chairman spoke at a meeting between the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) of the party and APC Senate caucus at the National Assembly. He said that the party leadership was not necessarily bothered about the size of the party but the quality and commitment of members to the unity of the party. The party chairman noted that the issues threatening peace and unity of the party varied from State to State and from constituency to constituency. He added that the party under his leadership would painstakingly take steps to address all complaints. Oshiomhole who also spoke on the move by some members to increase the size of the party noted that such ambition could spell doom for the party. He said: “I think we should stop celebrating our size. I am not fascinated when people say we are the largest party in Africa. This is because in economics, you could suffer from diseconomics of scale. “You can become too big as to become dysfunctional. In the modern world that is knowledge-driven, small can be beautiful.” He said, “So, I want to speak to democratic party, cohesive party, united party, the most powerful party. And this will be measured not by ourselves but by the Nigerian people in terms of what we are doing, how we do it and the cohesiveness that they can see. “So, that is in our hands and it is those values I want us to celebrate in future. I do not have any illusion that these are things we can just pluck. They have to be result of conscious hard work to have a united house. “So, I ask you Mr. President of the Senate and distinguished senators to trust that working together along with our leaders who are not here, we are committed to finding solutions that everyone will be able to smile, remain in the house, work in the house.” Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, who responded to Oshiomhole’s remarks, also harped on justice and fairness. Saraki noted that justice and fairness were the issues party members had clamored for even before the national convention. After the opening session of the meeting, the party members went into a closed door session.