……· NSE launches dedicated website for conference · ……Early registration attracts $150 discount · ….Speakers and participants from around the world expected. Confirmed are Dr Akinwunmi Adeshina, Ms Arumah Oteh, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, amongst others The Nigerian Stock Exchange (The Exchange or NSE) is pleased to announce today that registration is now open for the 22nd Annual African Securities Exchange Association (ASEA) Conference to be held on November 26 and 27, 2018 at Oriental Hotel, Lagos, Lagos, Nigeria. Attendees can register via the dedicated conference website, at www.asea-ngx2018.com. A discount of $150 is available for conference attendees who register before July 31, 2018. The two-day conference will feature over 60 distinguished speakers and panelists, from around the globe including senior policy makers, business leaders, investors, thought leaders, and keynote speakers such as Dr Akinwunmi Adesina, President, African Development Bank, Ms. Aruma Oteh, Vice President and Treasurer, World Bank, Ms. Kemi Adeosun, Hon. Minister of Finance, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, Chairman, Coronation Capital, Abimbola Ogunbanjo, President, The Nigerian Stock Exchange to mention a few. Commenting on the development, the President of ASEA and Chief Executive Officer of NSE,Oscar Onyema, said, “The level of enthusiasm received so far is encouraging to us as the host of this flagship African capital market conference. We look forward to bringing together global subject matter experts, exchange leaders, business and thought leaders, investors and other stakeholders within the capital market ecosystem, for a robust discussion of real-world solutions to key issues facing the African continent. The speakers at the conference reflect the multi-faceted nature of the industry, emerging technologies, sustainability and more”. Expected to be discussed at the conference are burning issues around Africa’s global competitiveness, emerging technologies and inclusive growth, within the broader perspectives of sustainability. Dimensions to cover include: · Green growth · Redefining Business Models: African Capital Markets in an Era of Customer-Centricity · Cloud Banking · FinTech for Africa – Driving Innovation and Efficiency in the 4th Industrial Revolution · Galvanizing Domestic Finance for the SDGs in Africa · Driving Africa’s ‘Real’ Economy: Innovative Solutions for Market-Based SME Financing · Pathways to Inclusive Growth in Africa: Digital Finance, Financial Literacy, Inclusion and the Democratization of Wealth · African Capital Markets – A Facilitator of Affordable Housing in SSA? · RegTech and the Future of Regulation in Africa Companies interested in sponsoring the event can also learn more about the conference on the website, as we have different sponsorship levels that are targeted to your needs. All levels come with varying company exposure throughout the two-day event. About ASEA The African Securities Exchanges Association (“ASEA” or “the Association”) is the premier Association of exchanges in Africa. Incorporated in 1993 under the Kenyan Companies Act, 2015 as a company limited by guarantee, ASEA is domiciled at the Nairobi Securities Exchange, in Nairobi, Kenya. Full membership of the Association is open to any securities exchange in the African region, and as at 2018, the Association has a full membership of twenty-eight (28) vibrant exchanges serving thirty-two (32) economies in Africa; two (2) observer members; and three (3) associate members. ASEA is home to approximately 1,100 listed companies with a total equity market capitalization of USD 1.5 Trillion. The main objective of ASEA is to unlock the potential of African capital markets, and enhance the development and global competitiveness of member exchanges. In doing so, it has established a solid platform for the mutual co-operation of stock exchanges in the African region, and continues to facilitate networking of its members as well as exchange of information between member exchanges and the participants in their eco system. These goals are supported by capacity development and networking initiatives executed by member exchanges on behalf of ASEA. These include the acclaimed Building African Financial Markets (BAFM) capacity building seminar and the ASEA flagship annual conference both of which attract a wide pool of talented delegates from across the globe.