 Nigeria’s governing party the All Progressives Congress (APC) has called for calm among its members as a massive number of its members in the legislature defect to other parties. Fifteen Senators of the APC defected to Nigeria’s main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) while in the House of Representatives, 33 members dumped the APC for the PDP and 4 left APC for another opposition party, the African Democratic Congress (ADC). In reaction to this, in a press statement signed by the APC National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, the party said it has taken note of the development in the National Assembly. The APC said it has been working hard to resolve the grievances it’s party members have. “In the last couple of weeks our Party leaders have worked to stave off this situation as responsible Party leaders would do. It would appear however that the individuals involved have different considerations beyond the grievances that they were willing to discuss and which our leaders were willing to address.’’ “As a truly democratic party, we respect the right of every citizen to political association. Therefore, we urge our members to remain calm as we continue to work hard to position our party strongly for the next general elections.  APC remains in firm control of 25 states of the 36 states of the federation and maintains a clear majority in the federal House of Representatives and state assemblies.’’ “We assure members and supporters that our great Party will continue to consolidate on our majority status in the lead up to the 2019 General Elections, even as our government continue to work hard to deliver on our promises to Nigerians.” APC said. Meanwhile, the Ekiti State governor-elect, Dr. Kayode Fayemi has said that the defection of APC party members will not affect the party’s chances in the 2019 General Election. Dr. Fayemi stated this while speaking to journalists after a closed door meeting with APC National Chairman, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, at the party’s National Secretariat in Abuja. He noted that defection of politicians from one party to another was a normal thing in democracy. “Democracy is not an event, it is a process, you don’t take an isolated event and come to a conclusion, as one door shurts, some other doors will open, just stay tuned,” he said. Dr. Fayemi expressed optimism that the APC would emerge victorious in the 2019 general election.