•Aspirant pays tribute to industrialist Ajayi An Osun State governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, has assured the people that his administration, if he wins the election, will serve all the strata of the society. The aspirant, who was on a tour of the Osun East Senatorial District to sell his candidature, spoke at the weekend in Ibokun, headquarters of Obokun Local Government Area and Ijebu-Jesa in Oriade Local Government Area. Oyetola described himself as most fit for the job because of his involvement in the formulation and implementation of policies and programmers of the Rauf Aregbesola administration in the last seven and a half years. He noted that governing Osun State is a serious business that must be entrusted in the hands of competent, efficient and spiritual personality like himself. Oyetola, who praised Aregbesola for laying a solid foundation for the incoming administration, stressed that he was ready for an all-inclusive government that will benefit workers, women, youths, farmers and students. He noted that though the Aregbesola administration had provided a template for good governance, innovation and creativity through courage, but the visionary leadership would wind up in a few months if it does not carefully allow competent hands to sustain his legacies and make more marks that can advance the fortunes of the state. To the political class, Oyetola said: “My government will also be for you, our leaders and members. So, don’t be deceived by those talking about dishing out money to sway you to their side only to give you a heartache in the end. Ours is an all-inclusive government that will harmonise all interests. Osun must never be allowed to retrogress. “When we set up our government, we will hold regular meetings with the communities to know your peculiar needs and attend to them at once. We will give according to what you desire to have. There will never be a misplacement of projects. So, it is important that everyone gets his Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC), which is your power to elect a candidate of your choice, not one based on money inducement but on competence and the capacity to rule.” The aspirant described him as a broad-minded community leader. Addressing reporters at the First Baptist Church at Ada in Boripe Local Government Area of Osun State after the funeral and thanksgiving service in honour of the deceased, the APC chieftain said the late Ajayi lived a fulfilled life worthy of emulation. Oyetola said there was a lesson for Nigerians, particularly politicians, in the late Ajayi’s high sense community to his family, the community and humanity. He said: “I admire Baba’s broad-mindedness to issues and politics. He was never narrow-minded. You will never see him exhibiting a bias for the APC or Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or being sectional in his relation with people. He saw issues beyond the smokescreen of emotion and sentiment. This is a big lesson for us all.”