Fresh controversy surrounds the whereabouts of the lawmaker representing Kogi West in the Senate, Dino Melaye. A lawyer to the lawmaker, Yemi Mohammed, on Thursday, said the senator was attacked at Gwagwalada on his way to Lokoja on Wednesday. According to the News Agency of Nigeria, Mohammed told the court that he had it on good authority that Melaye was attacked in Gwagwalada on his way to Lokoja. “I learnt that he was attacked yesterday (Wednesday) in Gwagwalada on his way to Lokoja to attend his trial and up till now, I have not been able to reach him, I don’t know where he is at the moment,’’ the lawyer said. The magistrate, Sulyman Abdullah, adjourned the case till August 9 for the commencement of trial as the prosecution could not open its case due to the absence of its lead counsel, Dr Alex Izinyon (SAN). The Officer in Charge of the Legal Department of the Kogi Command of the Nigeria Police, Mr Theophilus Oteme, told the court that Izinyon had an emergency call on Wednesday that made it impossible for him to appear in court on Thursday. Oteme, therefore, applied for an adjournment until September 23 for the commencement of trial in view of the absence of the lead prosecutor. More so, one of the defendants, Melaye, was not in court. In his ruling, Abdullah turned down the application by the prosecution for a long adjournment till September   23. He said that the Kogi State Administration of Criminal Justice Law did not allow for an adjournment beyond two weeks in a criminal case. The magistrate, therefore, adjourned the case till August 9 and ordered that the bail earlier granted to Melaye continued. Abdullah, however, ruled that the other two accused persons, Nuhu Salihu, alias “small’’, and Kabiru Seidu,  also known as “Osama’’, standing trial on a seven charges bordering on illegal possession of firearms and arms dealing, should remain remanded in the police custody. Meanwhile, Senator Ben Murray-Bruce had on his Twitter handle earlier on Thursday alleged that Melaye was abducted in the Abaji area of the Federal Capital Territory. Murray-Bruce said he was told that the lawmaker was blocked by some gunmen on the Abuja-Lokoja highway. He tweeted: “I have just been informed by Moses Melaye, Dino Melaye’s brother, that Dino has been abducted by unknown persons in a Toyota Sienna that blocked their car and overpowered them on their way to Kogi to answer to Dino’s court case. Let’s be on the watch out. Will keep you updated.”