L-R: A4AI, Nigeria National Coordinator, Engr. Ernest Ndukwe, Minister of Communications, Dr. Adebayo Shittu and Africa Regional Coordinator, Onica N. Makwakwa during Alliance for Affordable Internet (A4AI) Nigeria Coalition Meeting held at Sheraton Hotel, AbujaThe Minister of Communications, Dr. Adebayo Shittu has pledged the Ministry’s readiness to partner with the Alliance for Affordable Internet (A4Ai) to move the telecoms and ICT industry forward. Shittu made the pledge recently while addressing participants at a coalition meeting, with a theme: Digital inclusion: opportunities and strategies for a new Nigeria Broadband Plan, organized by Alliance for Affordable Internet. (A4Ai) He added that the current administration is determined not only to create policies and incentives, but also to collaborate with a coalition like A4Ai to ensure universal access to broadband, and in turn, contribute to a richer and diversified economy. Dr. Shittu added that the Federal Government recognizes the urgent need to increase access and usage of internet and broadband in Nigeria. According to him, ICTS has a great role to play in order to achieve the nation’s vision 20:2020 which outlines the Federal Government’s aim to make Nigeria a top 20 global economy by year 20:2020. He stated further that broadband development is key to stimulating growth, policy harmonization for enhancing ICT infrastructure and attracting investment, as a result, the Ministry of Communications will leave every stone unturned to review and revise the Nigerian Broadband Plan to revamp its advancement. According to him, “I take this opportunity to applaud A4Ai efforts and contributions in the developments and growth of the country through this noble initiative. The Ministry remains resolute in support to your course to meet the goals as we continue to engage you and other stakeholders towards an effective broadband policy intervention from time to time” Shittu said. He noted that the UN Broadband Council’s adoption of the “1 and 2” affordability target is a reflection of the impact and dedication of A4Ai, especially in Nigeria, the first country to endorse this target. Dr. Shittu said that his presence at the meeting is a demonstration of his Commitment and strong belief on the coalition and in using ICT as a major driver of Nigeria’s developmental governance and economic reform plans, which brings about the affordable internet for all. The Minister charged the Coordinator of the meeting, Dr. Ernest C. Ndukwe to make the recommendations of the meeting available to the Ministry of Communications for implementation in other to advance Broadband Penetration and affordability at the “1 and 2” target. In his welcome address, the National Coordinator of Alliance for Affordable Internet, Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, said Nigeria is leading other African countries in interconnections having met over 30% target of broadband penetration with 50% of its population having access and connection to internet services. According to him, Nigeria is the first African country to join the A4Ai which means the country is hungry for internet, it’s also the first African country to record strong spectrum pricing and implementation breakthrough, to mention a few. He, therefore, appeal to the government to make friendly policies to address some challenges relating to the high price of internet services which poses a hindrance for women, rural dwellers, and low-income earners.