Feet ‘n’ Tricks International in partnership with the World Freestyle Football Association (WFFA) has announced hosting of debut Africa Freestyle Football Championship this year. The African Championship is coming on the heels of the successful Nigerian Freestyle Championship organized by Feet ‘n’ Tricks International in 2017. Freestyle football is described by the WFFA as “the art and sport of juggling a football using all parts of the body to entertain audiences and outperform opponents… a fusion of tricks with a ball, dance and music.” Registration for this tournament is currently open to both male and female freestylers of African descent and will be closed on 15th of August, 2018. Registration will be done via the company’s website. The qualifying rounds and Nigerian championship will hold on September 13th -14th, 2018 at the Balmoral Convention Centre, Federal Palace Hotel in Lagos. After the qualifying rounds, the best 16 male and 8 female freestyle athletes in Africa will emerge to battle it out at the grand finale on September 15, 2018 in a bid to become the first African male and female Freestyle Football Champions. The 2018 Africa Freestyle Football Championship is being planned as a perfect fusion of freestyle football and entertainment as top musical and dance artistes will be performing. The final event will also host international freestyle professionals; Guinness world record holder, Iya Traore and Female freestyler, Raquel Benetti from Brazil Prizes worth over $50,000 (Fifty Thousand Dollars) which includes a brand new salon car as well as qualification and sponsorship for the global championship will be won. Co-founder and Head of Partnerships for WFFA, Daniel Wood, expressed love for the energy and passion for freestyle football that can be found all over Africa, “We at the World Freestyle Football Association are so excited to see the best talents from all across Africa come together on one stage and compete for this title. Everyone will be competing for not only the prizes, but for some world ranking points too with the winner of course putting themselves in a fantastic position to challenge the world’s best. I look forward to seeing you all in September,” he said. “We are excited to pave a new direction for freestyle football in Africa” said Valentine Ozigbo, Chairman of Feet ‘n’ Tricks International. “We expect at least 20 African countries to be represented at this Championship as over half have already registered. We will work on the development of African freestyle talent and continually exploit all available resources to create more awareness for the sport and we are grateful to our sponsors and partners.” He added. L-R: Mr Scofield Wu, Manager, GAC Motors Africa;  Jumoke Oyewole-Lawuyi, Brand Manager, Sprite; Valentine Ozigbo; Chairman, Feet ‘n’ Tricks International; Mary-Callista Ozigbo; Iheanyi Nzekwe; Distributors of Scavi & Ray; Mr Fela Ibidapo, Divisional Head, Communications, Heritage Bank, during the Press Conference to announce the commencement the call for entries for Freestyle Football 2018 African Championship in Lagos on Friday  L-R: Ms Jumoke Oyewole-Lawuyi, Brand Manager, Sprite; Mr Scofield Wu, Manager, GAC Motors Africa; Mr.  Valentine Ozigbo; Chairman, Feet ‘n’ Tricks International; Mary-Callista Ozigbo; Mr. Iheanyi Nzekwe, Country Distributor of Scavi & Ray, during the Press Conference to announce the commencement the call for entries for Freestyle Football 2018 African Championship to be organised byFeet ‘n’ Tricks International in partnership with the World Freestyle Football Association (WFFA) ,in Lagos on Friday  L-R: Godwin Nwanagu, Director, Feet ‘n’ Tricks International; Mr Scofield Wu, Manager, GAC Motors Africa;  Jumoke Oyewole-Lawuyi, Brand Manager, Sprite; Valentine Ozigbo; Chairman, Feet ‘n’ Tricks International; Mary-Callista Ozigbo; Iheanyi Nzekwe; Distributors of Scavi & Ray, Mr Fela Ibidapo, Divisional Head, Communications, Heritage Bank; and Olisa Adibua, Director, Feet ‘n’ Tricks International, during the Press Conference to announce the commencement the call for entries for Freestyle Football 2018 African Championship to be organised by Feet ‘n’ Tricks International in partnership with the World Freestyle Football Association (WFFA) ,in Lagos on Friday  Valentine Ozigbo; Chairman, Feet ‘n’ Tricks International and Olisa Adibua, Director, Feet ‘n’ Tricks International, with the Grand Prize of Saloon Car donated by one of the Sponsors GAC Motors Africa during the Press Conference to announce the commencement the call for entries for Freestyle Football 2018 African Championship to be organised by Feet ‘n’ Tricks International in partnership with the World Freestyle Football Association (WFFA) ,in Lagos on Friday 