 L-R: TOPE AJAO, DIRECTOR, BLUECHIP TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED; KAZEEM TEWOGBADE, MANAGING DIRECTOR, BLUECHIP TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED; OLUMIDE SOYOMBO, CO-FOUNDER, BLUECHIP TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED; AND BOLAJI AFOLABI, VICE PRESIDENT, SALES & BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, BLUECHIP TECHNOLOGIES LIMITED, DURING THE MEDIA BRIEFING AROUND ITS 10TH ANNIVERSARY, HELD IN LAGOS, FRIDAY JULY 13, 2018. Business applications and data management solutions firm, Bluechip Technologies Limited, today concluded the celebration of its 10th anniversary with a series of events including the launch of an endowment fund at Matori Grammar School, Lagos and a celebration cocktail for the company’s clients, partners and key stakeholders. Bluechip Technologies was established in 2008, to develop a customer centric approach for delivering data management expertise to guide the decision-making capacity of financial, telecommunications, manufacturing and public sector organisations. In 2010, the company began to diversify its services across Africa with an office in Zambia and again in 2018, with further expansion into the Democratic Republic of Congo.  Through a suite of innovative proprietary technology products and strategic partnerships with the leading Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and multi-nationals, the company has tripled in size and impact over the past decade. A few of the products that have been developed and launched by Bluechip include Simplex – an end-to-end voucher-management software for telecommunications and energy companies; custom analytics models for banks; and in December 2017, Blueprime – a retail analytics platform that provides in-depth insights into customer behavior, trends, experiences, and sentiments.  Commenting on the milestone, Kazeem Tewogbade, Managing Director, Bluechip Technologies Limited stated “In the past decade, we have consistently delivered value and provided uniquely tailored solutions to our customers. We look forward to our continued excellence in providing the right tools for the collection of information that ultimately drives our clients’ performance.”  The anniversary celebration began at Matori Grammar School – Kazeem Tewogbade’s alma mater – to launch the Bluechip Endowment Fund as well as commemorate the company’s refurbishment of the School’s facilities. The Bluechip Endowment Fund is a two million naira investment into the school, dedicated to executing capital projects and rewarding excellent students and teachers over the next few years. Olumide Soyombo, Co-founder, Bluechip Technologies also commented: “We are so glad to be celebrating a decade of staying the course and developing the Bluechip brand. We have come a long way from our humble beginnings in 2008; thanks to the tireless commitment of a team of people who have become instrumental to the Bluechip story. We appreciate all our OEMs, partners and customers; they have all been instrumental to our growth. As we look ahead, we are excited about what the future holds for us and for our industry at large, and to being a part of the continued proliferation of data analytics and management in Nigeria and the continent at large.  ” The Senior Management Team held a press briefing to discuss their corporate journey, recent activities, and forward-looking plans which include a renewed commitment to skill building and youth development to enhance the potential of the technology sector in Nigeria. In line with this vision, this year, Bluechip will sponsor the first ever Inter-Campus Machine Learning Competition, driven by Data Science Nigeria (DSN) –a program designed to raise a generation of data scientists and Artificial Intelligence experts from Nigeria’s universities and polytechnics through a competitive process of tutorials and a residential boot camp.  About Bluechip Technologies Ltd:  Bluechip Technologies is a leading full-service business application firm focused exclusively on assisting organizations in planning, designing, implementing and operating business application solutions and strategies to develop client data management solutions that are central to creating and maintaining a competitive business advantage.