Dr. Frank Udemba Jacobs, President, Manufacturers Association Of Nigeria (MAN) at a press conference today July 25, 2018 on matters arising on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA) agreement & outcome of the launch of an independent study on the potential benefits of AFCFTA by Nigeria Office Trades Negotiations (NOTN) said I would also like to express our deep appreciation of the resolute stand of His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR in sustaining his decision to withhold his signature of the Agreement until he is convinced that Nigeria stands to benefit from the Agreement.  Dr Jacobs also said that for the avoidance of doubt, we (MAN) again request that Mr President should not sign the AfCFTA agreement until the outcome of a credible study so indicate, but graciously allow the nation’s team to resume participation in the negotiation processes ONLY to ensure that the country is abreast of developments. This will certainly not jeopardise or constrain the reservation of our assent, should we eventually decide that the Agreement is definitely not in our favour. It will only mean that, whilst keeping our eyes on the goings-on, we can continue with our much needed and sovereign path to determine whether we should sign-on or not.  He stated this at a press conference on matters arising on the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA) agreement & outcome of the launch of an independent study on the potential benefits of AFCFTA by NOTN held on July 24, 2018 at MAN House, Ikeja, Lagos said I would also like to express our deep appreciation of the resolute stand of His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR in sustaining his decision to withhold his signature of the Agreement until he is convinced that Nigeria stands to benefit from the Agreement. Two necessary components of this requirement are the conclusion of nationwide inclusive consultations by NOTN and positive outcome of a credible study that would reveal the potential impact of the agreement on the Nigerian economy. This is a clear demonstration of the commitment of His Excellency to the growth of the manufacturing sector; the preservation of the service sector, improvement of the wellbeing of citizenry and the advancement of the Nigerian economy. MAN believes that Nigeria may become a big player and key driver of improved volume of intra-African trade in an African Free Trade Area with the right market offer mix, rules of origin, countervailing measures, dispute settlement mechanism, non-tariff and technical barriers provisions, amongst other protocols and annexures. The only way to guarantee this positive proposition is to ENSURE that our negotiating team is guided by a credible and strategic country specific STUDY. There is no wisdom in signing-on upfront only to end up struggling to find space in the accompanying Protocols and Annexures. We need to be certain that the Agreement is in sync and not constraining our extant economic policies, including the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan ( NIRP) and the Economic Recovery And Growth Plan (ERGP). You may recall that in March this year, I intimated our position that the Federal Government may withhold signing the AfCFTA framework on the following grounds: