The Tincan Island Command of the Nigeria Customs Service generated a total of One Hundred and Sixty-Two Billion, Seven Hundred and One Million, Seven Hundred and One Thousand, One Hundred and Thirty-Six Naira and Eighty-Three Kobo (N162,701,701,136.83) in 2018.  This is against the sum of One Hundred and Thirty Billion, Six Million, One Hundred and Thirty-Six Thousand, Nine Hundred and Ninety-Six Naira and Thirty-Six Kobo (N130,006,136, 996.36) generated in the corresponding period of 2017.   This represents a difference of Thirty-Two Billion, Six Hundred and Ninety-Five Million, Five Hundred and Sixty-Four Thousand, One Hundred and Forty Naira and Forty-Seven Kobo(N 32,695,564,140.47).  The Customs Area Controller Tincan Island Port, Comptroller Musa Baba Abdullahi during a chat with some Stakeholders in his office recently disclosed emphatically that the Command has been repositioned as the most business friendly Port wherein all compliant declarants will be duly compensated and given special preference.  In his words: “We are deploying multi-layered approach in addressing the issues of compliance which is a panacea to Trade Facilitation, through reward for compliance and ensuring that compliant declarants are given expeditious attention in line with the presidential directive on Ease  of Doing Business.”  Similarly, the Customs Area Controller noted that the Command is at the verge of fully automating key seats in the Command to enable seamless Operations as he made reference to the just concluded training of officers on E-Transire and NSA-End User Certificate Procedure.In a statement sent by Uche Ejesieme, Public Relations Officer of the command  revealed that on seizures and Detentions, the Command effected seizure of assorted offending items ranging from used Clothing, Children Toys,  Assorted Furniture, Bags of Rice, Shoes, Handbags, Used Vehicles etc with a Duty Paid Value (DPV) of One Hundred and Thirty Eight Million, Seven Hundred and Fifty-Two Thousand, Nine Hundred and Ninety-One Naira Only (N138,752,991.00) as against that of 2017 which stood at  a DPV of Eighty-Eight Million, Sixty-Two Thousand, Two Hundred and Fifty Naira Only (N 88,062,250.00).  The Comptr Abdullahi stated that the Command is in steady progression in all aspects of its primary functions and urged stakeholders to take advantage of the various complaints platforms in channeling their genuine grivancies for necessary action.  The CAC recalled that during the period under review, the Command also effected seizures of large quantity of Ammunition and other Military Hardware during scheduled Examinations and promised that the Command will not lower its guards in ensuring that such illicit consignments does not pass through to Command.  The Customs Area Controller Abdullahi appreciated the support of the CGC Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali, his Management Team, the Officers and Men of the Command and indeed the Esteemed Compliant Stakeholders in TCIP for their support during the period under reference.  He pointed out that the Command will continue to leverage on the already harnessed competences of it’s hard working personnel to carve a niche and remain outstanding in the performance of its statutory mandate.  “we are encouraged by the steady progress in compliance by the Importers and we are optimistic that the trend will continue to show appreciable response”.  On the recurring issues of multiple alerts due to non compliance with the Fiscal Policies, the CAC while charging Importers/Agents on honest declarations assured that with the take off of the “One Stop Shop” area under construction, the issue of multiple alerts would become history.  The Controller posited that the Command remain committed to the change mantra of the CGC and will not renege on it’s statutory responsibilities.  The Caption Photo: The Customs Area Controller Tincan Island Port, Comptroller Musa Baba Abdullahi