The Chief Executive Officer, Modion Communications limited, Odion Aleobua, has another feather to his growing list of achievements as he emerged Nigeria’s ‘Outstanding PR Personality of The Year’ at the just concluded 2018 edition of the Marketing Edge Brands & Advertising Excellence Awards event held on Friday, July 6, 2018, at the Balmoral Events Centre, Oregun, Lagos. The annual Marketing Edge Brands & Advertising Excellence Awards targeted at celebrating creative agencies, brands, media personalities and media establishments in the Nigerian advertising, media and communications industry.  The awards seeks to impact the lives of many professionals and shapes a more diverse, inclusive, and highly skilled marketing industry with each honoree exemplifying outstanding leadership, innovation, creativity and a commitment to giving back through supporting marketing education. At this year’s edition of the award, Odion Aleobua, who leads one of Nigeria’s fast growing integrated communications agency, Modion Communications, was singled out for recognition. The announcement drew a wide applause from top brand and communications experts present who further gave credence to the creative ingenuity of the personality awarded in the midst of many. Commenting on the recognition, Odion who expressed his delight on being celebrated as Nigeria’s Public Relations Personality of the Year dedicated his award to his team members in his young creative agency for giving the needed support to birth his ideas. “I am pleased and humbled to have been recognised by the industry for the work we do. This is another milestone for the PR agency we founded in 2015, just three years ago; for me and my young team considering we were on the same stage a year ago as the outstanding young PR agency of the year. We have now graced this podium twice in two years, back-to-back, year-on-year in the three years since our establishment. This is an indication that we are driving our vision of being Africa’s most respected PR agency in the right direction and must continue to produce compelling and superior ideas for our clients,” Mr. Aleobua said. He added that; “We are a young agency, but we continue to touch brands that are way older. This for me gives me joy as we have shown capacity at different levels even under the tightest of schedules. We will continue to develop new initiatives, give insights and as well create mind-blowing innovations that will shape how the end users perceive our clients in line with achieving brand objectives. We will continue to show competence as we offer dynamic, strategic, client-tailored initiatives in our quest for providing unique solutions with unparalleled excellence.”  ABOUT ODION ALEOBUA: Odion is a communications and media professional, passionate about creating change and breaking new grounds. He continually seek ways to contribute superior initiatives in achieving set goals for a purpose-driven organisation, where excellence and hardwork are respected and rewarded. Prior to founding Modion Communications (an integrated PR firm) and InsideMainland.com (an online community media platform, dedicated to reporting goings-on in Lagos Mainland – the city’s host to a huge sub-urban residents and SMEs activities – he  was Head, Communications and Brands, at Forte Oil PLC. He also handled Media and Public Relations for Oando PLC, one Nigeria’s leading indigenous integrated energy solutions provider, for almost a decade and was also a Business Correspondent at Tell Magazine. His company, Modion Communications provide advisory to top brands, individuals, small businesses, government agencies among others providing cutting-edge communications solutions, marketing activations, media engagement, crisis communications, stakeholders engagement among others. Its clientele includes, The Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), Leadway Assurance Company Limited,  Lumos Nigeria, Oando PLC, Axxela, Nigerian Gas Association to name a few.  About The Annual Marketing Edge Brands & Advertising Excellence Awards: The annual Marketing Edge Brands & Advertising Excellence Awards targeted at celebrating creative agencies, brands, media personalities and media establishments in the Nigerian advertising, media and communications industry