The management of the management of Nigerian Aviation Handling Company plc (NAHCO Aviance ), the integrated solutions for Aviation and Cargo Handling Services has said that for an economy attempting to diversify its sources of revenue from predominantly oil earnings, a lot more is required to be done in this regard to encourage exporters through Air. The Chairman of Nigerian Aviation Handling Company plc (NAHCO Aviance) Arc Usman Arabi Bello in the Reports and Accounts of 2017 said it would also be out of place to suggest to the Federal Government to reduce the bureaucracy at the cargo terminals. Arc Bello noted that it must be said that our clients and other prospective exporters pass through a lot of unnecessary hurdles while trying to export their goods.NAHCO cargo export division has positioned itself to handles more exporting products through the Air, he added. NAHCO Boss said “we have begun to see increased business activities as reflected in increased frequencies and growth in our cargo volumes in the first quarter, 2018. We hope this will be sustained all through the year, as we step up efforts to diversify our revenue streams. We have also stepped up our mechanism for collections and introduced measures to improve controls and block leakages.” The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) Idris Yakubu said despite all the odds, our company has remained strong and focused with its dynamic Board and the Management Team united, by a shared vision to excel, win and to lead others. Yakubu also said in 2017, our business, like many others, faced several challenges, which affected the operating environment, a situation made worse by the rising cost of doing business and the intense desire to survive by players. He therefore, commends the efforts by government to improve cargo export through initiatives like, the designation of some airports, like the Owerri Airport and the Benin Airport as cargo airports, and the relaxation of the cargo import policy on polletisation, amongst others. As you may recall, cargo operations and activities contribute hugely to our revenues, and several initiatives are being implemented to create a welcoming environment to grow same, he stated. “We are currently reviewing our product and service offerings with a view to providing more value from existing offerings and introducing new ones.” Yakubu disclosed that for the time in years, the Cold Room and the Freezer in our export warehouse is now fully operational to facilitate export of perishables items, while three (3) has dual and single view x-ray machines are currently operational to ensure speedy and safe screening of our export cargo. This will certainly ease and facilitate the export of cargo, and make the NAHCO Warehouses the choices destination of agents and airlines, he added.   The Caption Photo: The Chairman of Nigerian Aviation Handling Company plc (NAHCO Aviance) Arc Usman Arabi Bello