L – R show Mr. Olufemi Onifade, Head, Secondary Markets, The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE); Ms. Tinuade Awe, Executive Director, Regulation, NSE; Austin Avuru, Chief Executive Officer, Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc and Roger Brown, Chief Finance Officer (CFO), Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc during a Facts Behind the Figures presentation at the Exchange. The management of Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc during a Facts Behind the Figures presentation on the floor of the Exchange stated that seplat has unique leverage position and strong track record to access new production and development assets in the Niger Delta has demonstrated the country as the most prolific oil and gas opportunity set in Sub- Saharan Africa (SSA). Austin Avuru, Chief Executive Officer of the Company said Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc’s new production and development assets in the Niger Delta has positioned Seplat as the leading indigenous independent E&P which will make Seplat the largest supplier of processed natural gas to the domestic market. He said the successful refinancing underscores the confidence that the market has continued to show in our business and ability to proactively manage our balance sheet through challenging times. While, Roger Brown, Chief Finance Officer of the Company said “looking ahead, our near-term priority is to sustain the earnings and cash flow momentum we have earned into 2018. We will also continue to priorities expansion of our domestic natural gas business which provides a constant revenue stream that is delinked from the oil price. And underpinned by the strong fundamentals of high demand and increasing pricing. In addition, we will continue to closely monitor the oil price, implementing our hedging strategy on a rolling basis to provide a level of cash flow assurance. The performance of our productive asset base and the implications these factors have on financial performance over the near, medium and long term, allowing us to scale and phase our future investments appropriately while continuing to honour our debt service obligations. “In 2017, NPDC’s net expenditure was US$ 93 million and seplat received a total of US$219million towards the settlement of outstanding cash calls. As a result of this and the settlement of current cash calls, the US$10million impairment provision recognized in 2016 was reversed, Seplat has continue discussions with the NPDC to ensure further reduction of outstanding receivables in 2018. “Seplat financial performance for first quarter in 2018 showed gross oil sales jumped to US$141million from US$30million in 2017. Gas sales also follow with US$40million from US$25million and the total revenue for the first quarter under review soared to US$181million from a mere figure of US$47million. “Other indices showed positively are Profit Before Tax (PBT)  hovering US$ 559million driven by higher production and higher oil price realization more than offsetting higher net finance costs, Profit After Tax (PAT) stood at US$21million after adjusting for non cash tax items of US$38million (primarily deferred tax), Reduction in capex compared to prior year, reflects adjustments pending refinancing outcome and US$131million set aside towards the settlement of outstanding cash calls in the period against NPDC net expenditure of US$38million.