LEFT TO RIGHT: 1ST Vice President Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers, Mr. Olatunde Amolegbe, President CIS, Mr. Adedapo Adekoje, Ag. Director General Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, Ag. Executive Commissioner Operations SEC, Mr. Isyaku Tilde and Ag. Executive Commissioner Corporate Services, SEC, Mr. Henry Rowlands during a meeting between SEC and CIS in Abuja The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has pledged to work with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in its desire to infuse Capital Market Studies (CMS) into the curriculum of schools in the country.  Already, the apex regulator of the Nigerian capital market is developing a curriculum on capital market studies as part of the financial literacy programme, which is geared towards boosting investment education.  President of CIS, Mr. Dapo Adekoje made the pledge during a meeting between CIS and Management of SEC in Abuja.  Adekoje commended the SEC on its investor education initiatives and assured that the Institute was willing to support any programme that would help deepen the market.  According to him “We have visited some schools and realised that most students do not have elementary knowledge of the capital market. We believe that if Nigerians are aware early in life of the benefits of investing in the capital market that will increase percentage of participation and also help to deepen the market”.  In her earlier remarks, Acting Director General of SEC, Ms Mary Uduk, said the Commission is open to any collaborative efforts that would increase financial literacy among Nigerians. LEFT TO RIGHT: President Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers, CIS, Mr. Adedapo Adekoje, Ag. Executive Commissioner Operations Securities and Exchange Commission, 2nd Vice President CIS, Mr. Oluwole Adeosun, Ag. Director General SEC, Ms. Mary Uduk, and Member of Council CIS, Mr. Umaru Kwairanga during a meeting between SEC and CIS in Abuja “We are making progress with Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC) on the development of the curriculum and we hope the introduction of capital market studies will start from the Secondary schools up to our tertiary institutions” Uduk said.  The 10 year Capital Market Master Plan requires SEC to inculcate the culture of financial literacy and specifically to introduce Capital Market Studies (CMS) into curriculum at all levels of education and to encourage CMS as a degree programme in the tertiary institutions. 