L-R: Fela Ibidapo, Head, Corporate Communication, Heritage Bank; Kunle Mide-Akinlaja, Executive Producer, The Next Titan Show: Olumuyiwa Akande, Corporate Affairs Manager, SIFAX Group and Christian Iwarah, Corporate Communications Manager, Air Peace, at The Next Titan Season 5 Press Conference held in Lagos. SIFAX Group, a multinational company with interests in Aviation, Maritime, Haulage & Logistics, Oil & Gas and Hospitality, among others, has once again demonstrated its resolve to stimulate and grow youth entrepreneurship with its sponsorship of the fifth season of The Next Titan business reality TV show. SIFAX Group is the only sponsor that has been backing the show since its inception. The Next Titan provides a platform for young and creative entrepreneurs to pitch their business ideas to a panel of judges, made up of distinguished and successful business owners. The grand prize winner will go home with a car and N5 million cash reward. Speaking at the official kick off of the Season 5 in Lagos, Olumuyiwa Akande, Corporate Affairs Manager, SIFAX Group, explained that the company believes in encouraging young and aspiring Nigerians who want to break free from the job-seeking mindset. He said: “SIFAX Group has a reputation of lending helping hands to causes and programmes that seek to redirect the mindset of the Nigerian Young ones away from the job-seeking syndrome.The major objective of the show, which is to cultivate and fertilise the entrepreneurial spirit of the Nigerian youth, is also well aligned with the business philosophy of SIFAX Group. “Our country’s educational system, as it’s currently designed, is fashioned to produce job-seeking graduates, despite the social reality of high unemployment rate in the country. The rate at which young people are entering the job market on an annual basis is farhigher tan jobs that are created, both by the private and the public sectors. The situation is scary. “We must begin to encourage entrepreneurship among our young people, even before they leave school. Their mindset must be reprogrammed to the reality that job opportunities are shrinking by the day and the way to go is to help them actívate their ideas, encourage them to run their own businesses and become job creators as well. That’s why SIFAX Group is supporting the The Next Titan show because those are the objectives of the programme.” He further expressed satisfaction with the success recorded by the show in the last four seasons, with winners and other participants recording giantstrides in their business endeavours noting that many of them are now running thriving businesses that have employed not a few. He promised the commitment of the company and its CEO, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, to the show. On his own part, Mr. MideKunle-Akinlaja, Executive Producer of the show, said: “The importance of THE NEXT TITAN lies in igniting entrepreneurial spirit, and showcasing the possibility of entrepreneurship in transforming lives with just an idea that can be scaled to greatness with a market and with Nigeria’s population. The Show, by scouting for young talented people who have entrepreneurial acumens, grooming them through a rigorous task and boardroom process and eventually funding a winner’s idea, leading to an opportunity to create jobs for themselves and others, is indeed a big contributor to the socio-economic development of Nigeria.” Auditions for the show will hold in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Enugu