The Lagos State Government has restated its commitment to providing an inclusive economic model that would engender productivity. Speaking at a two-day  ‘Strategic Workshop,’ organised by the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment in collaboration with Hudson Group in Ikeja, the Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, said achieving a higher level of productivity in the state economy required an approach that aligned with the potential of its citizens. The commissioner stated that the state government was deliberately focusing on optimising the productivity of the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises for the attainment of employment opportunities for Lagosians. “The strategy being adopted by the present administration will no doubt help to create a conducive and vibrant platform that will enable the ministry to improve its existing structure that will in turn be impactful in the discharge of its statutory function of creating sustainable wealth,” the commissioner added. Akinbile-Yusuf said the forum would strengthen traditional and social entrepreneurship and also help facilitate business and management extension services to SMEs for unemployed youths and artisans. “The coming together of stakeholders in the private and public sectors to provide realistic solutions to challenges confronting the enterprising industry in state will unleash the economic potential of the state to the world,” she added. The Executive Vice President of Hodson Consulting Company, Tom Iseghohi, described the strategy session as a way of unravelling the obstacles of development enterprises, as well as brainstorming on how to proffer solutions that would enable SMEs to grow and be relevant to Lagos GDP. He said Lagos with GDP worth of $120bn had the potential of reaching $750bn, noting that the establishment of the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment was a good step in the right direction. Iseghohi further stated that special attention was being paid to how to influence import and export locally in a way that would lead to buoyant economy and employment in Lagos State. “It is good to see that the state government is committed to initiatives that propel the state economy towards encouraging local and international investors. This will improve the standard of living of the citizens,” Iseghohi said. He said plans would be made to ensure the reality of the specific solutions developed during the workshop, adding that the resolution would be presented to the government for implementation.