…urges members and stakeholders to attend …. Condemns false alarm by non-members The national executive of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) on Wednesday condemned the discouragement of stakeholders from attending the forthcoming Nigerian Independent Petroleum Company (NIPCO)’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) purported by some individual spreading fake information. The IPMAN secretary, Mr Danladi Pasali in a communiqué issued after the National Executive Council meeting held in Abuja debunked the rumour and asked its members and other stakeholders of NIPCO to attend its forthcoming 2018 AGM. In the statement, Pasali said that the national body of IPMAN felt it necessary to put the record straight for the public to know that their attention was drawn to a publication in one of the newspaper dated 17th July 2018 on the false allegation discouraging stakeholders from attending the NIPCO’s forthcoming AGM. In his word: The national executive of IPMAN was aware that the chairman of NIPCO Plc, Chief Bestman Paul Anekwe has complied with the necessary provision of law. Therefore, he made it clear that executive body of IPMAN under the leadership of Mr Chinedu Okoronkwo respected the views of members of IPMAN on freedom of speech; the NEC of IPMAN will not tolerate anybody to hide under the association’s name to commit unlawful action to the detriment of IPMAN name. According to him, the report also purported that IPMAN has petitioned the security agencies due to violation of rules by NIPCO. However, Pasali affirmed that the NEC of IPMAN has not petitioned any government agencies, such as AGF, IGP, EFCC, DSS and Registrar, General of Corporate Affairs Commission, Registrar of Security and Exchange Commission on violation of any rules or law for NIPCO not to hold her AGM. He said the national executive committee hereby urged members who are stakeholders of NIPCO to attend the 2018 AGM at the designated venue. IPMAN as an association has no hand in the purported letter written by the some unknown individuals that was published, he reiterated. The secretary pointed out that the said mr Chinedu Ukadike, who is the arrow head in the purported suit (FHC/PH/CS/06/2018) was not even a IPMAN member, as he has no company registered  as independent marketers under IPMAN not to talk of been a shareholder in NIPCO Plc. “NIPCO is a corporate entity and as corporate entity with registered shareholders are qualified to attend NIPCO AGM. “The suit was an individual against individual which has no connection with IPMAN, IPMAN is not a party to the suit,’’ he said. The IPMAN scribe said that it was expected that some newspapers ought to have relied on verified document before entertaining such publication, adding that the publication was meant to drag IPMAN name into the mud. He said that while IPMAN recognizes the right of individual to seek redress in the court of law on any matter, this fundamental human right should not be abused by individuals. Pasali said that those media house should not drag IPMAN into the suit in which IPMAN was not a party to the suit. “IPMAN is of the opinion that newspapers should always verified every of their report before dishing it out to the general public. 