 ……..Hosts inaugural education cocktail and fundraiser for expansion plans Teach For Nigeria, a Non-profit organization focused on improving the quality of education for Nigeria’s most marginalized children, hosted its inaugural annual education cocktail and fundraiser in Lagos on Friday 13th July 2018 themed “Educate Nigeria”.Guests included captains of industry and leaders in the private and public sectors.  The event served as a platform to highlight the Teach for Nigeria vision, mission, strategy and progress made – since inception in 2017 – in addressing the inequality that exists in disadvantaged schools in the program’s current coverage areas – Lagos and Ogun states – as well as its expansion efforts into the Northern region of the country in 2018.  This also provided a means to enlist the support of and recruit champions from the private sector to secure financial and strategic commitments towards raising much needed funds to be invested in transforming the educational system and ensuring that every Nigerian child, regardless of status, has an opportunity to attain quality education.  Folawe Omikunle, CEO, Teach For Nigeria, said: “Over the years, Education in Nigeria has suffered a steady and continuous decline resulting in poor learning outcomes for most of our students and more so, for disadvantaged students from low income communities. As part of efforts to ensure that the standards are raised for all our children, Teach For Nigeria was established and I am proud of all that we have achieved so far and grateful for the support and commitment we have received from our Fellows, champions and ambassadors.”  Gbenga Oyebode, Chairman Teach For Nigeria said: “Teach for Nigeria is focused on developing a movement of leaders across the nation who are committed to putting an end to educational inequity. The present state of education in Nigeria, where about a third of our children are not in school and over half of those in school are not learning, is not acceptable. Every well meaning Nigerian must therefore join hands to ensure that ongoing initiatives such as Teach For Nigeria that aim to make sure that disadvantaged children in Nigeria who lack access to an excellent education have a better chance at achieving a successful future, are encouraged and supported.”  As part of plans to expand its coverage to the Northern region, Teach For Nigeria signed a Partnership Agreement with the Kaduna State Government on June 25, 2018 that allows the program to place Fellows in high-need primary schools in Kaduna to teach students for two years. The first cohort of Kaduna Fellows will begin to lead their classrooms by September 2018. This milestone brings the program much closer to achieving its vision that one day; every Nigerian child will have the opportunity to attain an excellent education.  Teach For Nigeria plans to expand and deepen its efforts over the next 10 years- impacting over 500,000 primary school children across Nigeria annually.  About Teach for Nigeria Teach For Nigeria is a Non-profit organization focused on enlisting Nigeria’s most promising future leaders in the effort to expand educational and life opportunities for all children in Nigeria. The initiative is part of Teach For All, a global network of over 45 independent partners, aimed at expanding educational opportunities, while increasing and accelerating the impact of social enterprises that are cultivating the leadership necessary for change so that“…One day, all children will have the opportunity to attain an excellent education .” For more information, please visit: www.teachfornigeria.org 