The Management of African Union (AU) are divided in the process signing for the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement. AU has 55 Countries of which Forty-nine have signed leaving a total number of six countries to ratification the agreement. According to information from the reliable source who disclosed that a minimum of 22 countries ratifications are required to enable the AfCFTA to come into force, while 15 ratifications for the protocol on free movement of persons, right of residence and right of establishment. The AfCFTA battle has since seen be worn and lost by the Nigeria & Other Five Countries Abstains from what presumed to be the largest free trade area since the formation of the World Trade Organisation, according to the AU. According to opinion of the promoters, it could create an African market of over 1.2 billion people with a GDP of 2.5 trillion U.S. dollars, according to the pan-African bloc. The promoters among AU members country said the deal was expected to improve the economic prosperity of the African nations removing barriers to trade, like tariffs and import quotas, allowing the free flow of goods and services between its members. However, Nigeria and five other countries still withholding their signatures in the deal process, even, the Director General of the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Olusegun Awolowo while speaking in Abuja at the sideline of an engagement event to promote Intra-African Trade Fair to be held soon in Egypt, Awolowo said Nigeria will not only sign the AfCFTA, but will also drive its implementation in Africa. Awolowo was of the opinion that Nigeria has the potential to dominate the African trade market through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). The NEPC boss said language barrier, inadequate transportation networks and weak political will have been some of the major hindrances to intra-African trade, which Afreximbank and NEPC are collaborating to find solutions to. He described as “disappointing” the revelation from the 2017 statistics of the International Trade Centre that Nigeria only accounted for about 1 per cent in value of African imports from the world in 2017 of which 80 per cent was petroleum. The President of the African Export-Import bank (Afreximbank), Dr. Benedict Oramah, said the fair was organised to promote trade within Africa. Oramah said Africa can up the value and volume of intra-African trade through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), which has the potential to boost trade by 53.2 per cent by eliminating import duties and non-tariff barriers. The Managing Director of Afreximbank’s Intra-African Trade Initiative, Kanayo Awani, said part of the reason for low trading among African countries is lack of knowledge of available export routes on the continent, standards and tariffs. According to Celestine Ukpong, a former civil servant and astute investor sense of reason, he said, this is the case of majority carry the vote, going by the behavourial patterns in the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement deal. He question that: Is there, any common lesson from this hurry, hurry agreement, for what it seems to be free without hidden conditions?  Is there, any condition attached with if you are fit to continue then the so call country can withdraw freely in the middle or anytime?.