About 15 Nigerian security agencies have been empowered with adequate skills to fight cyberattacks in the country. A statement on Monday gave some of the security agencies as the Nigerian Armed Forces, Department of Space Administration, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency and the Nigeria Police. The statement said the list was given at the cybercrime seminar organised by Global Accelerex in Abuja, adding that the security officers were empowered with knowledge of cybercrime trends and mitigation techniques, cybersecurity art and science, defensive strategies, security operations centre, risk management and penetration testing. One of the officers from the Nigerian Navy, Commodore Hamza Ibrahim, said the training was meant to equip participants with necessary skills to carry out their operations effectively and reinforce the security defence architecture to prevent attacks from happening. “Cybersecurity is about process, technology and people. The human element must be constantly strengthened and nurtured through continuous training and education. This seminar is therefore an avenue to build capacity and create awareness, which is critical to the improvement of security operations,” he said. A Chief Superintendent of Police, Aminudeen Muhammad, emphasised the importance of keeping abreast with the latest technological advancement, saying that the initiative would increase efficiency and improve resilience to online threats. One of the participants from Independent Corrupt Practices Commission, Awogbemi Olanrewaju, said that the knowledge gained from the forum could not be quantified, stressing that the course content had broadened the horizon in identifying cybersecurity breaches and combating insider threats. Participants also proffered methods of reinforcing security defence architecture to prevent attacks from happening. The Executive Director, Business Development and Chief Operating Officer, Global Accelerex, Kayode Ariyo, expressed appreciation to the Office of the National Security Adviser and all the security agencies for their selfless service, reiterating the company’s commitment to supporting programmes that would make the cyberspace safe. He added that by investing in people, Nigeria’s security apparatus would be stronger to curb the activities of cybercriminals. “We are confident that this forum will help to further improve the strategies employed in the course of duty and make the cyberspace safer for all,” he said.