  Fidelity Bank Plc on Monday donated N50 million to the Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF) as part of contributions to improving security of lives and property in the State. The cheque was presented by the Bank’s Executive Director, Lagos and South-West, Mrs Nneka Onyeali-Ikpe to the Executive Secretary, LSSTF, Dr. Abdulrassaq Balogun at a brief ceremony in Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos on Monday.  Onyeali-Ikpe who commended the Lagos State Government for its commitment to preserving public peace, and protecting lives and property of Lagosians, said security was paramount to business success. According to her no activity can thrive in an atmosphere of uncertainty and insecurity.  “We are encouraged to support this initiative and kudos must be given to the Lagos State Government for the peace we are enjoying in the state today. gWe have over 80 branches, about 2,000 staff and millions of customers in the state. We are concerned about their safety all the time” she stated The Executive Secretary of LSSTF, Dr. Abdurrazaq Balogun, commended the bank for the gesture, saying that Fidelity had been consistent in its support to the Fund from inception to date. According to him the bank has donated a total of N175 million to the LSSTF since the fund was established. “Thank you Fidelity Bank. We are most appreciative of this and what is most touching for us is your consistency. You have always come to our aid every year unsolicited”.  He assured the Fidelity Bank officials that the donation would be used judiciously and reiterated the commitment of the Lagos State Governor Akinwumi Ambode to ensuring that we have a safe Lagos State.    SECURING LIVES AND PROPERTY Executive Director, Lagos and South west, Fidelity Bank, Nneka Onyeali – Ikpe presenting a cheque of N50 Million on behalf of Fidelity Bank Plc to the Executive Secretary/ CEO, Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF), Dr. Abdurrazaq Balogun being part of the Bank’s contribution to the safety of lives and property in Lagos State  SECURING LIVES AND PROPERTY L-R: Divisional Head, Brand and Communications, Fidelity Bank Plc, Charles Aigbe; Executive Secretary/ CEO, Lagos State Security Trust Fund ( LSSTF), Dr. Abdurrazaq Balogun; Executive Director, Lagos and South west, Fidelity Bank, Nneka Onyeali – Ikpe; Chief Security Officer, Fidelity Bank Plc, Peter Okoloh when Fidelity Bank presented a cheque of N50 Million to the Lagos State Security Trust Fund ( LSSTF) as part of the Bank’s contribution in ensuring the safety of lives and property in  Lagos State.