  The Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has dumped the Multi Year Tariff Order (MYTO) with which it regulates the cost of electricity in the Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI). Its Chairman, Prof James Momoh spoke yesterday in an interview in his office, NERC building, Abuja yesterday. The purpose of  the MYTO is to set cost-reflective tariffs which will allow the power sector to be properly funded and functional. It provides a 15-year tariff path for the NESI with limited minor reviews each year in the light of changes in a limited number of parameters (such as inflation, interest rates, exchange rates and generation capacity) and major reviews every five years, when all of the inputs are reviewed with stakeholders. But according to him, the commission under his watch, shall not adopt the MYTO software that was handed over to him because as a programmer, he does not believe in it. The essence of dumping the method, he said, is to cross check whether consumers are being cheated with the computation. He said: “Worldwide it is not easy to calculate what it costs to produce one kilowatt of power. But we are not going to use somebody’s software that is passed on to us in NERC: they call it MYTO software. No! I am not going to believe that because I am a programmer. I develop programmes. I calculate things. I develop software packages in America for energies for the power sector. “So, I really want us to get into it and find out want is it, how did they calculate this pricing for us ? So, perhaps there is an error. And that error we may find out because our staff here will fund out how to do it and they will modify the calculation and come with a better way. The idea is to make sure that we are not being cheated as customers.” Momoh, who assumed office on March 5, this year, is a Professor of Electrical Engineering. He was based in the US and also, Director of Center for Energy Systems and Control. He said he has already raised a team of first class workers in the commission to calculate what it costs to produce electricity from the gas to power plants to the generation front, distribution and finally to the consumers. Momoh said: “But here, there are first class people, whose job is to sit down quietly with me and unbundle the cost of one kilowatt of power, all the way from the gas supply to the GenCos through the transmission line to the DisCos to the customer’s end of it. “So, we know how much really it costs to produce one kilowatt of power, including the operational cost, the processing, the end cost, plus the technical cost. When we say we are going to increase rates, it is not based on guesswork.” The NERC chief said the team meets once in a week and the informed idea from them will provide the commission the answer to the tariff issue.