As Lagos State Government intensifies efforts towards building a secured smart city fit for global investments in partnership with the private sector, management of Halogen Security Company Limited has expressed its readiness to collaborate with the Government to deploy cutting edge crime prevention smart solutions capable of securing over 21 million Lagos population. As a notable security solutions provider to key sectors of the nation’s economy and a thought leader in security and allied businesses, Halogen Security has always developed intelligent risk reduction and security facilities critical to security management. The Managing Director/CEO of Halogen Security, Mr. ‘Wale Olaoye, said this while receiving the Special Adviser to the Governor of Lagos State on Security and Intelligence , Mr. Adekunle Ajanaku who paid a visit to the company’s Ikeja, Lagos head office. “We are excited to receive the Special Adviser on Security and Intelligence to the Governor of Lagos State, Mr. Adekunle Ajanaku at our ultra-modern head office – The Fusion Centre, and to conduct him round our facility where we operate real-time remote monitoring of our security locations using various platforms, electronic equipment and telematics to ensure the safety of our clients at all times,” Olaoye said. He added that, “with our over two decades of active strides in the security solutions business, thorough understanding of the Nigerian business landscape and the changing security demands across different sectors of the economy, we have continuously improved on our security solutions architecture. Our hi-tech facility, a fully digital platform which we have proudly named “The Fusion Centre”, is developed to tackle clear and present security challenges especially in an emerging smart city like Lagos and is perhaps one of the most sophisticated in the country and we are willing to share this innovation with the state government” he stressed. In his response, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Security and Intelligence, Mr. Adekunle Ajanaku disclosed that one of the fundamental elements of any Smart City is safety of lives and properties. “We all strive to live in a safer environment, where business activities and human interactions thrive without fear or criminal tendencies. We are exploring the use of technology to manage and reduce crime rate in Lagos. This is one of the reasons why we are collaborating with corporate citizens as part of our strategy to develop a networked system that will prevent crime and ensure safety of Lagosians,” Ajanaku stressed. During the Special Adviser’s tour of Academy Halogen, which is the Halogen School of Security Management & Technology (HSSM & T), the Chief Operating Officer, Dr. Adebowale Adeagbo told the visiting Special Adviser that Academy Halogen “is a learning institution created to produce the manpower and expertise in enterprise security risk management in the digital space through education, research, strategy, technology and policy. The institution, he emphasized, “will help amplify the thought leadership value proposition that Halogen Security is noted for.” Adeagbo noted further that, the school is focused on investing in education to empower talent and future – proof Security, as a profession for Halogen and the industry at large. “We run this academy by offering several courses and programmmes leading to the award of professional certificates in partnership with renowned institutions such as Babcock University (for our Certificates, Diploma, Advanced Diploma and MBA programs),” he disclosed. Halogen Security, by far the leading security solutions private enterprise in West Africa has, over the years, embarked on a radical redesign of its business, evolving into a fully digitized and integrated group of companies that provide end to end and technology centered solutions in the enterprise security risk management space.