L-R: Treasurer, Photojournalists Association of Nigeria (PJAN), Lagos Branch, Olasupo Kola; Chairman, PJAN, Demola Akinlabi; Chairman, Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos Chapter, Dr. Qasim Akinreti; CEO,Modion Communications, Odion Aleobua and Leadway Assurance Franchise Owner, Ikorodu, Tunji Amokade during the presentation of personal accident insurance cover by Modion Communications in partnership with Leadway Assurance for 100 PJAN members at Modion Communications Office in Maryland, Lagos on Friday, May 11, 2018.Modion Communications, an award-winning Integrated Marketing Communications agency based in Lagos, Nigeria, has partnered with Leadway Assurance, a principal player in the Nigerian insurance industry to provide personal accident insurance cover for all the 100 members of the Photo Journalist Association of Nigeria (PJAN). The partnership and presentation ceremony officially took place at the Modion Communications office in Maryland, Lagos, on Friday, May 11, 2018, as part of the activities lined up towards celebrating the 40th birthday of the company’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The Leadway Assurance personal accident insurance policy procured by Modion Communications for PJAN, assures the 100 members of the association a compensation package of up to N500,000 in the event of bodily injury solely and independently of any other cause by accident, violence, external and any visible means resulting in death or permanent disablement or temporary total disablement as well as up to N100,000 in medical expenses cover. Commenting, the CEO, Modion Communications, Odion Aleobua said the brand’s decision to provide a personal accident insurance cover to photo journalists in Nigeria was as a result of the risks they are regularly exposed to during the course of carrying out their duties. “According to the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) about 20 Journalists died in the course of their duties in the last two decades. Due to the exigencies of the profession, photo journalists are even more exposed to risks in the line of duty and for us as a PR agency, it was an easy choice to provide an insurance plan that covers members of PJAN, who have been our partners since our inception, from personal accidents. What is unique about this insurance plan is that unlike the usual personal accident insurance policies, accidents involving motorbikes will be fully covered. This is because we are aware that most Photojournalists trust motorbikes to help them catch multiple assignments in the course of the work,” he said. “It speaks well about the value we place on our partners in the media, as this initiative would be of immense benefit to not only practitioners of photo journalism but also their loved ones. That way, members of the association can go about their professional duties, knowing fully well that they are protected by Nigeria’s leading insurer. At Modion Communications, we would continue to create innovative and symbolic ideas of this nature so that we can inspire others to do the same,” Odion added. In his remarks, the Chairman of Photo Journalists Association of Nigeria (PJAN), Lagos Chapter, Demola Akinlabi, expressed his delight at the insurance cover given to members of the association. “We are very grateful to the Modion Communications team for finding us deserving of this noble initiative. We have been exposed to several attacks at different times which often lead to loss of lives, temporary or permanent injuries, and loss of equipment among other ills. We find ourselves at the receiving end of various abuses but still always find a way to bounce back with little or no support from the organizations or corporates we work for. “We never expected this gesture from Modion Communications and with the move, our members from across Nigeria in places such as Oyo, Delta, Abuja, Lagos among other cities can benefit from an accident insurance cover at no cost to them. With this, I think we can do our work better without minding the risks involved since we can now boast of a functional policy,” he said. Also speaking at the occasion, Tunji Amokade, Leadway Assurance Franchise Owner, Ikorodu, noted that the partnership with Modion Communications is in line with the company’s desire to keep all stakeholders happy at any given opportunity. “A scheme of this nature ensures that the beneficiaries are not at total loss in the course of duty in case of an accident resulting in a temporary or permanent disability, violence, or even death,” he said. Commending the CEO of Modion Communications, the Chairman, National Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos Chapter, Dr. Qasim Akinreti lauded the initiative stressing that the welfare of media practitioners is critical. “This epoch making move is a celebration with a difference and we are proud to associate with corporates that add value to the lives of our members. This development is aimed at improving the welfare of our members and it better enhances our slogan of new beginnings which we are promoting in the association,” he stated. ABOUT MODION COMMUNICATIONS Modion Communications is an award-winning Integrated Marketing Communications agency focused on providing public relations, brand development, marketing activations, media engagement, crisis communications, financial PR, investors’ relation support, event management, digital marketing and media publishing. Based in Lagos, Nigeria, the brand envision an African dominance through superior, innovative, creative, cutting-edge communications solutions to individuals, small businesses, large corporates, industries and government agencies. Modion Communications is committed to providing solutions that only promote superior product quality, honest and well researched messaging and responsible, sustainable and credible stakeholder engagements.