 The Nigerian Electricity Management Service Agency (NEMSA) on Wednesday warned promoters of fake and sub-standard electrical equipment in the country to desist from the act or risk losing their investments.  Peter Ewesor, the Managing Director of the agency, gave the warning in an interview in Lagos against the backdrop of the influx of sub-standard electrical products into the country.  Ewesor said the warning became necessary to curb the influx of imported fake electrical equipment, especially pre-paid meters, into the country.  He said it would no longer be business as usual for importers of sub-standard electrical equipment as the government would take the necessary steps to curtail the menace.  According to him, all categories of electrical installations, power system and networks must be properly planned, designed and certified before use.  “Gone are those days of sub-standard equipment and installations, which compromised the safety of Nigerians.  “More pointedly, manufacturers of fake power equipment are hereby put on notice. The long arm of law shall catch up with those endangering the lives of innocent citizens.  “Nigerians do not only want adequate power supply, they also need safety and reliability,” he said.  The NEMSA boss said the agency would ensure that no electrical installation or network would be used in Nigerian unless it was tested and certified fit by its technical officers.  He said the agency would not hesitate to flag products that did not comply with standards.  “Once we test any electrical product and we find that the product does not meet standards, the product will be impounded.  “We will also report substandard products to the electricity distribution companies to ensure such products are not used by them.  “We are well prepared ahead for the influx of pre-paid meters into the country and we have increased our capacity both in human resources and our laboratories,” Ewesor added.  According to him, the meter test station would undertake type test, routine test, calibration and certification of meters and instruments before they used in the power sector value chain and other allied industries.