 The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has congratulated Nigerians on the occasion of the 2018 Democracy Day. In a statement by Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, the Special Assistant (Media and Communications) to the CAN President, Dr Olasupo Ayokunle, on Monday, the association also commended the military for submitting to civil authority in line with Constitution but lamented that governance had failed on many fronts. The statement reads: “CAN commend the military for its submission to the civil authority as clearly stated in the Constitution. CAN rejoices with Nigeria that since May 29, 1999, Nigerians have been enjoying an uninterrupted democratic system which is the longest period since when the country attained independence. “We congratulate the Federal Government, the 36 state governments and the Federal Capital Territory and all the local government councils on this auspicious occasion and pray that God will give our leaders the needed wisdom to live up to the people’s expectations. “The Association regrets that the three tiers of government have failed on all fronts — social, economic and political — and the unprecedented killings in the land, hardship, poor state of infrastructures and reports of suicide in the country are too obvious to be ignored .” While praying to God to comfort victims of criminal activities across the country, CAN prayed that “leaders and all the security agencies would wake up from their slumber to their responsibilities before the situation gets out of hand.” On the 2019 elections, the association urged “politicians to avoid hate and inciting speeches,” and encouraged all eligible voters to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) and endeavour to exercise their rights to vote. “The three tiers of government should strive hard to make the much-awaited dividends of democracy available to the people. Let there be room for gainful employment for our youths who are roaming the streets. Nigeria will be a better country if justice and the fear of God are upheld by both the government and the governed. We reiterate our call to all Christians to continue praying for peace and unity for our fatherland and the grace to do the right things for our leaders,” the statement concluded.