…….begin implementation by the third quarter of 2018 Inability of Nigeria government to tracks accurate transactions account for the shipping sector’s contributions to its economy, has compelled the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), in partnership with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to introduce a Disbursement Account in order to keep track of the financial activities of Ship Agents at the nation’s seaports. According to the CBN Director in charge of Foreign Exchange, Saleh Jibrin, the move to instill transparency through strict implementation of Disbursement Accounts has become imperative in order to adequately capture the flow of foreign exchange in the maritime sector. Jibrin noted that it is a move aimed at entrenching professionalism and best practices in line with international standards, as the operation of a Disbursement Account by Ship Agents on behalf of their principal abroad, is a standard operating procedure and minimum requirement for their operations. “In the CBN’s review of Nigeria’s economy for 2017, the maritime sector did not feature as much as we expected and as a result, we could not index the flow of funds into the system regardless of the number of vessels calling at our ports”, Jibrin said at a stakeholders’ sensitization programme organised by the NSC in Lagos on Tuesday. The CBN director said that there was no documentary fact or evidence to prove that Nigeria is a shipping country and argued that the narrative could only change when inflow on disbursements to Ship Agents to husband Nigerian bound vessels are properly reflected in the nation’s revenue flows. Also speaking at the meeting, a consultant to the CBN on the proposed policy and an expert in International Trade and Development, Mrs Dabney Shall-Holma, said that the Disbursement Account which signifies inflow of foreign exchange into a system is a mandatory universal document, which could lead to judicial proceedings for any shipping company that cannot produce it. She stressed that it is a necessity for reconciliation of accounts between the shipping agent and his principal and in the computation of the statement of facts, especially as it relates to the oil and gas industry. Shall-Holma also noted that the implementation of the policy would register Nigeria’s shipping sector as a major player in the economy and impact positively on the country’s GDP index. She cautioned stakeholders that the revenue figures people erroneously attribute to the maritime sector is actually derived from taxation on cargoes as against flow of income into the economy. “When the implementation manual for the policy is released, it will help us generate more money from vessels visiting Nigeria, depressurize the foreign exchange market and register the shipping sector’s contribution to GDP growth with a strong bearing on forex management in Nigeria”, she said. The expert further observed that while shipping contributes 50, 70 and 75 per cent to the GDPs of countries like Benin, Cameroon and Togo respectively, due to the number of vessels they receive, Nigeria’s shipping sector contributes a meagre 18 per cent despite commanding a huge proportion of cargo volumes destined for the West and Central Africa region. On his part, the representative of the Executive Secretary of the NSC and Director, Legal Services, Mr. Samuel Vongtau, said that when the disbursement Account is fully implemented, it would become a part of the CBN’s forex manual. Vongtau expressed optimism that the policy which is derived from the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) adhoc Intergovernmental body meeting in 2004, ties into the global code of operations for shipping agents and gives impetus to the Presidential directive on Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria. Speaking on the sidelines of the meeting, representatives of various shipping companies it was disclosed that most agents in Nigeria already operate a semblance of the Disbursement Account but no government agency had requested for it. They argued that while the account may have been operated under titles, they primarily served the same function. The panel urged Ship Agents to prepare for a new dispensation as the target is to begin implementation by the third quarter of 2018. 