…..records 28 cases of frozen products in four (4) months The Federal Operations Unit (FOU) Zone ‘A’ of the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Ikeja, has raised standard of its anti-smuggling operations with the interception of contraband imported frozen poultry products concealed with packed of minerals in a twenty (20ft) foot container. The FOU intercepted the twenty (20) foot container said to contain 630 cartons of frozen turkey products concealed and stacked with packed of fanta, coca cola and sprite carefully on Friday May11, 2018 along Ijora axis based on the intelligent reports. Addressing news men on Friday May 11, 2018 at FOU’s Warehouse Ikeja while showcasing the seized goods, the Customs Area Controller, Comptroller Mohammed UBA explains the reasons why the FOU ‘A’ Ikeja always be on patrol though customs have checking points saying Section 158 of the Customs and Exercise Law gave them right to patrol within their command. The Area Controller, Comptr Mohammed said his men on patrol intercepted the vehicle based on information they got adding that if public sees customs men checking motor suspected to have carried prohibited items on the roads, they complains. You can see what this person have carefully packed to deceit and sub change government revenue with a duty paid value (DPV). If FOU are not on patrol, perhaps before they could reach the area from Ikeja, the suspect would have gone, he added.Reacting to what will happen to these seized Items and suspects? Comptr said items will be destroyed with collaboration of NAFDAC officers and the suspect will be charge to court. He also explained that any duty able product concealed with prohibited item in order to deceit will be seized and confiscate or destroy together. In this case, fanta and sprite concealed with frozen turkey on the prohibited list will be confiscated and destroy, he said. He advise smugglers to go through legitimate business to enable government have proper records of all trades facilitates for purposes of planning. Without proper record or statistic of all transactions, there will be no planning.  For effective developmental planning, government needs proper records, he noted. The Comptr said that the level of education is low despite all efforts of government through media about the danger of prohibited products, Nigeria citizenry still patronize this prohibited products. According to Comptr Mohammed, the Command from January through to April 2018 has recorded 28 cases of frozen products representing 770 cartons with DPV over and above forty Million.