It was indeed celebration galore for staff and pupils of Egwuare Primary School, Uromi in Edo State as Fidelity Bank Plc provided them with educational supplies, including computer systems, branded school bags, sandals, books and other writing materials to support learning. The Bank’s decision to embark on this initiative was borne out of the need to make life easier for students. The project tagged ‘Back to School’, was initiated and implemented by staff of Uromi Branch under the auspices of the Fidelity Helping Hands Programme (FHHP).  The Bank’s intervention in the education sector particularly its Back-To-School project has received glowing commendations from various quarters. His Royal Highness, Solomon Izuware Ojeaga, The Onogie of Ujiogba Kingdom, in his remarks commended the Bank for implementing projects that enhance the quality and standard of education in the country.  “Our Back-to-School initiative has indeed touched the lives of Nigerian students across the country, particularly in the Internally Displaced Peoples (IDP) Camps in Benin, Yola and Maiduguri respectively”.  Speaking at the handover ceremony, Regional Bank Head, (RBH) Midwest 1, Ovie Mukoro, who stressed the importance of education as a veritable tool for national development, stated that the Bank is a staunch advocate of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR).  Receiving the materials, Head Teacher, Egwuare Primary School, Uromi, Philomena Okojie expressed utmost happiness at the gesture while urging other private organisation to borrow a leaf from the Bank. Okojie noted that the initiative will bring some measure of relief to parents who cannot afford to purchase necessary educational materials for their wards. His Royal Highness, Solomon Izuware Ojeaga, The Onogie of Ujiogba and his wife cut the tape to unveil items donated by Fidelity Bank Plc to Egwuare Primary School, Uromi in Edo State recently, as Hon. Augustine Okoruele, Executive Chairman, Esan North East LGA (2nd eft); Chris Nnakwe, Head, CSR & Sustainability, Fidelity Bank Plc (3rd left), Ovie Mukoro, Regional Bank Head, Midwest 1, Fidelity Bank Plc (3rd right) look on.  L-R: Head Teacher, Egwuare Primary School, Uromi, Mrs Philomena Okojie, Chris Nnakwe, Head, CSR & Sustainability, Fidelity Bank Plc, Hon. Augustine Okoruele, Executive Chairman, Esan North East LGA, HRH Solomon Izuware Ojeaga, The Onogie of Ujiogba Kingdom with his wife, Mathew Amade, TSD Head, Uromi Branch, Fidelity Bank Plc; and Ovie Mukoro, Regional Bank Head, Midwest 1, Fidelity Bank Plc at the unveiling ceremony of items donated by the Bank to Egwuare Primary School, Uromi in Edo State recently.  Chris Nnakwe Head, CSR & Sustainability, Fidelity Bank Plc (5th Left) presents items donated by the Bank to Egwuare Primary School, Uromi in Edo State while Honourable Augustine Okoruele, Executive Chairman, Esan North East LGA, Edo State; HRH Solomon Izuware Ojeaga, The Onogie of Ujiogba Kingdom with his wife; Ovie Mukoro, Regional Bank Head, Midwest 1, Fidelity Bank Plc; Joseph Ero, Branch Leader, Uromi Branch, Fidelity Bank Plc looks on.  