 The Association of Food, Beverage and Tobacco Employers has lamented the high operational cost of doing business in the country. The body said the business environment in the last one year had been toxic, pointing out that although Nigeria came out of a 15-month recession in the second quarter of 2017, the economy was still weak and fragile. Speaking at the association’s Annual General Meeting in Lagos, the President, AFBTE, Chief Patrick Anegbe, listed part of the challenges to include, high costs incurred because of non-existing or inadequate infrastructure, arbitrary imposition of multiple taxes, shortage of foreign exchange and disruption of petroleum products’ supply. Anegbe, however, noted that the interventions of the Organised Private Sector through engagement with the government and the critical agencies had helped, largely, to stabilise the interruptions of business operations. He said the manufacturing sector was one of the major contributors that made it possible for the economy to get out of recession, hence the urgent need to provide the sector with all the necessary support to attain full capacity. While thanking members of the association for their cooperation in the year under review, Anegbe assured employees of harmonised salaries/wages and fringe benefits to impact on workers’ welfare packages. He said, “Today’s AGM is essentially for stock taking. It affords us the opportunity to look back at the last one year of our existence as an association within the context of the environment in which our respective companies do business. This gathering also enables us to take the learning points of the past year into consideration in strategizing for the future of our association and our respective businesses. “In general, the business environment has remained uninspiring. Due to this, the industry recorded quite a number of job losses in 2017 because of closure of some production lines due to unbearable costs. “We believe the OPS should continue to engage government at all levels on the problems encountered with the ease of doing business policy. There is a need to ensure adequate logistics in procuring the required input for production and seamless access of the output to the market.” The President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Dr. Frank Jacobs, advised the Federal Government to sustain and deepen existing reforms to translate into low cost of doing business. Jacobs, who was represented by Mr. Segun Ogundipe, said power related challenges affecting industries and improvement of the operational environment were issues that must be solved in order to achieve the ease of doing business in the country. To assess the impact of the scheme, the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo met with a section of about 12,000 beneficiaries during the state’s edition of MSME Clinic. The Special Assistant to the Vice President on MSME, Tola Johnson, said “The best thing that has happened to micro businesses in Nigeria is the GEEP MarketMoni programme. It dealt with their collateral challenge because all they need is their data, a bank account and Bank Verification Number (BVN).” Johnson added that out of the 37million small businesses in Nigeria, 36.9 million are microenterprises. Toyin Adeniji, the Executive Director of BOI revealed that under the GEEP MarketMoni scheme, BOI has given out more than 350, 000 microcredit loans across the country.