… Gives NNPC GMD Highest Union’s Award Members of Executive Committee of PENGASSAN, NNPC Corporate Headquarters Branch, felicitating with NNPC GMD, Dr. Maikanti Baru, on the Prudence and Integrity Award conferred on him by the union. The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN), Corporate Headquarters branch of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), has conferred the union’s highest award of prudence and integrity on the Group Managing Director of the corporation, Dr. Maikanti Baru. Conferring the award on Dr. Baru, the NNPC PENGASSAN Branch Chairman, Corporate Headquarters, Comrade Mathew Duru, applauded him for operating an open-door policy and for always making staff welfare a priority. Comrade Duru noted that the continuous harmonious working relations between the current management and staff were because of the sterling leadership of the GMD and his management team, assuring that the unions would continue to provide all the needed support to enable it to deliver on its mandate. “We in the union describe you, Dr. Maikanti Baru, as ‘Talk Na Do’ because since your assumption of office, you have always kept your promises to the union and we felt that we should confer this highest award on you in appreciation of your positive industrial relations. We the staff and our retired colleagues would always live to remember you and be proud of you for impacting our lives positively,” Comrade Duru stated. Speaking in a similar vein, the National General Secretary of NNPC Retired Staff Association, Comrade Pajara Ndiuno, thanked the GMD for having the interest of both staff and retirees at heart, stressing that his leadership style has given them a sense of belonging. Chairman of PENGASSAN, NNPC Corporate Headquarters Branch, Comrade Matthew Duru (left), presenting the union’s Prudence and Integrity Award on the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru, yesterday. He said the NNPC retirees would always pray to God to continue to give Dr. Baru wisdom and sound health to pilot the affairs of the corporation aright for the common good of the Nigerian people and the economy. He lauded the GMD for ensuring uninterrupted supply and distribution of petroleum products across the nook and cranny of the country, adding that the retirees were proud of his job performance. In his response, NNPC GMD, Dr. Baru thanked the union for confering its highest award on him, assuring that he and his management would continue to maintain harmonious working industrial relations with the entire staff. “I will start by thanking the unions, especially PENGASSAN, for always demonstrating exceptional leadership. You have shown by your action since this management came on board that it is not only when you want to negotiate with management that you approach us, but you always commend and appreciate us when we are doing well. As a union, you have always shown maturity which as senior staff is expected,” Dr. Baru stated. Dr. Baru assured that the drive of the current management was to ensure that the morale of staff and the retirees always receive a boost to guarantee a healthy operating environment.