The management of the Linkage Assurance Plc has stated the reason why they could not holds their Annual General Meeting for 2017 and others, due to “Delay in filing the 2017 audited financial statement In the statement signed by Moses Omorogbe, the Company Secretary and released dated Monday 30th of April 2018 to the management of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (The NSE) which was published on its site, said “We regret to inform our esteemed shareholders and the public that our primary regulator, National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) is yet to approve our 2017 Audited financial statement. “We are very optimistic that the accounts will be approved on or before the 31st of May, 2018 and same will be published together with our first quarter 2018 unaudited accounts which is ready for publication but for the delay in the approval of the 2017 Audited Accounts. Omorogbe however stated that we assure our valued shareholders and the public that this delay does not threaten the going concern of the company. About Linkage Assurance Plc:  Linkage Assurance PLC is a Nigeria-based insurance service provider company. The Company’s business insurance classes include automobile, property, general accident, liability group, compulsory insurances, oil and gas, marine and aviation, and engineering. Its retail and direct insurance solutions include Purple Motor Plan, Estate Insurance Plan, Citadel Shield Plan, Shop Comprehensive Plan, Event Insurance Xclusive and SME Comprehensive Plan. Its online insurance services include marine insurance and motor insurance. Its automobile insurance provides cover for loss or damage resulting from ownership and use of all forms of automobile vehicles licensed to operate on Nigerian road, as well as the associated third-party bodily injury and property damage liabilities. Its Linkage Purple Motor Plan provides insurance solutions to individuals and corporate organizations with a focus on women. The Linkage Citadel Plus is a group personal accident scheme designed for education establishments.