… Pick up your FirstBank Verve card today at any of our branches and start getting rewarded! FirstBank, Nigeria’s premier financial institution is set again to reward customers for Verve Card usage in its Free Fuel Fridays Promotion.  The free fuel Friday promo which is activated by FirstBank in collaboration with Verve International and Oando Plc. kicks off on Friday, 19 October 2018 to Friday, 7 December 2018 between 6am and 8pm.In the promo, for a minimum of N3,000 fuel purchase, FirstBank Verve Card holders will receive 5 extra litres of fuel for FREE instantly at selected Oando Fuel Stations across Lagos. The Oando fuel stations where the promo will run are Lekki Stillwaters, Alapere, Marina, Ojodu, Maryland, Awolowo 1(by Fire Service), Agege-Bypass, Lawanson, Apapa Dump and Herbert Macaulay Way stations.  Verve card is a secure debit card which allows the card holder to conveniently meet day to day financial needs such as payment for goods and services, airtime recharge, bill payments, funds transfer, etc. It is accepted across all ATMs, POS, Web and Mobile Platforms in Nigeria About FirstBank First Bank of Nigeria Limited (FirstBank) is the premier Bank in West Africa and the leading banking services solutions provider in Nigeria. With some 14 million customer accounts, FirstBank provides a comprehensive range of retail and corporate financial services with over 750 business locations.  The Bank has international presence through its subsidiaries, FBN Bank (UK) Limited in London and Paris, FBNBank in the Republic of Congo, Ghana, The Gambia, Guinea, Sierra-Leone and Senegal, as well as a Representative Office in Beijing. FirstBank has been named “Most Valuable Bank Brand in Nigeria” six times in a row (2011 – 2016) by the globally renowned “The Banker Magazine” of the Financial Times Group; and “Best Retail Bank in Nigeria” for seven consecutive years, 2011 – 2017, by the Asian Banker International Excellence in Retail Financial Services Awards.  Our brand purpose is to always put customers, partners and stakeholders at the heart of our business, even as we standardise customer experience and excellence in financial solutions across sub-Saharan Africa, in consonance with our brand vision “To be the partner of first choice in building your future”.  Our brand promise is to always deliver the ultimate “gold standard” of value and excellence. This commitment is anchored on our inherent values of passion, partnership and people, to position You First in every respect.