Business and investment opportunities in Nigeria and other African countries’ health and wellness sector will reach $1.8 trillion by 2030. The opportunities are primarily in risk pooling; and technological advances including remote patient monitoring and tele-health. This was the major highlight of the ‘African Business: Health Forum’ publication, which final report will be launched in early February 2019, at the African Union (AU) Summit. The Africa Business: Heath Forum 2019 will see the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (UNECA), in partnership with GBCHealth, the Aliko Dangote Foundation and the Private Sector Health Alliance of Nigeria collaborate. The collaboration will bring together some African leaders, chief executives and business leaders, philanthropists, as well as high-level representatives of the AU, United Nations, and the African Development Bank (AfDB) to discuss the continent’s health challenges and opportunities for investment. The Africa Business: Heath Forum publication, which was accessed by The Nation,  said by 2030, business opportunities in health and wellness sector will reach $1.8 trillion, noting that the African youth bulge represented a huge potential opportunity for business across the continent. “Harnessing this potential into a positive force for development through investments in health, empowerment, education and employment is the greatest challenge of the next 15 years,” the publication on the state of Africa’s health sector from a macro-economic perspective, said. The publication also said the Africa Business: Heath Forum will launch the African Business Coalition for Health (ABCHealth), adding that this Africa led-initiative was announced at last year’s Bloomberg Global Business Forum by Aliko Dangote, the African business magnate. ABCHealth is a partnership between the Aliko Dangote Foundation and GBCHealth. Since the announcement, the partners have worked together to develop the foundation for a regional platform to connect African business leaders and philanthropists to mobilise coordinated action on health. ABCHealth helps companies and their leaderships contribute more directly to meeting national and regional health goals in the context of the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Agenda 2030 and Africa Agenda 2063 — ultimately improving the standard of living, quality of life, and the overall health and wellbeing of all Africans. GBCHealth is committed to leveraging the full resources of the business community to meet today’s most pressing global health challenges, working together to make a healthier world for their employees, for the communities in which they work and for the world at large.