Africa must procure prudently to protect itself and provide labour to its teeming youth.  His Excellency, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Dankwa, President of Ghana, while delivered his speech as a Guest Lecture for the Annual General Meetings of the Manufacturing Association of Nigeria (MAN) said we will build a Ghana that has the capacity to produce its basic needs and add value for exports.  The guest lecture speech was delivered by Honourable Yaw Osafo-Maafo, Senior Minister of the Republic of Ghana representing His Excellency Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, The President of the Republic of Ghana, on the occasion of the manufacturers’ annual lecture & presidential luncheon of the 46th annual meeting of the Manufacturing Association of Nigeria (MAN) under the theme: “Mainstreaming Policies To Catalyze Industrial Renaissance” held in Lagos, Federal Republic of Nigeria. President Akufo-Dankwa said that it is in line with this policy philosophy that we are developing a comprehensive national policy on Integrated Bauxite and Aluminium Development to develop the Ghanaian economy. We are not in a rush to sell our bauxite in its natural form. We deserve to have the highest value of every tonnage of mineral we sell. And this can only be done if there is a functional, responsible and effective institutional policy framework to achieve that. A bill is put before Parliament on this integrated approach to process our bauxite such no bauxite will leave the shores of Ghana without any value addition. This is the way to strengthen industrialization for the benefit of our people, noted he.  “Governments in Africa must use the procurement muscle of the state to support industrialization on their respective countries by His Excellency Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo, the President of the Republic of Ghana.”  “Once we get both inter- and intra-Africa trade, investment and industrialization policy mix on the right tangent, we stand the chance of leading the new frontier to affect global industrial decisions for the interest of our people. We have the natural factors to our advantage. What we need is to ensure that we consolidate our economic advantages through effective policy framework to drive our collective desire to deepen industrialization in Africa.  “Governments in Africa must use the procurement muscle of the state to support industrialization on their respective countries. Governments spend a large portion of their budgets to buy goods and services to run the state. If the appropriate policies are fashioned out, such procurement policies of the state should favour local production – products to support the social sectors such as schools, hospitals, police, army, prisons, etc. But invariably, due to corruption such procurement policies favour the procurement of cheap goods from other countries to rather support those countries’ industrialization process instead of our own.  “We need stop this needless drive for importation and direct our attention protecting local businesses. We must tailor our procurement laws to favour local production; for every cheap item we buy from outside Nigeria, Ghana or the continent as a whole, we shall bear in mind that we are providing employment to other people outside our borders and denying our people the jobs to make a living and create wealth in dignity.   The Caption Photo:His Excellency, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Dankwa, President of Ghana