The Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) Society Nigeria will host the Nigeria Investment Conference 2018 from November 8 to 9, at Eko Hotel Convention Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos. In a statement, the CFA Nigeria said with Nigeria’s population, which is expected to rise above 300 million by 2050, the availability of capital to spur growth will play a huge role in the country’s future. Hence, there is need for stakeholders to start asking some very important questions as the country charts a path for the future. It said the most prolific sectors of the Nigerian economy are private-sector led. “But why would anyone want to invest in Nigeria? How easy is it to do business in the country? Are current policies favourable to increasing capital inflow? With so much investment opportunities available in the country, why aren’t we seeing investors competing fiercely to exploit available opportunities? What has been done by the government to attract more Foreign Direct Investment, and what should we expect going forward?,” it asked, adding that the participants at the forum will be providing answers to the questions. With the theme: “Let’s Measure Up”, the conference promises an impressive line-up of international and local speakers, including Minister of Industry, Trade & Investment, Okechukwu Enelama; Deputy Governor, Central Bank Of Nigeria, Aishah Ahmad; Former President and CEO of the African Finance Corporation, Andrew Alli; President & CEO CFA Institute, Paul Smith; Chairman, First Bank of Nigeria, Ibukun Awosika; Managing Director, EMEA, CFA Institute, Gary Baker and President, CFA Society Nigeria and Conference Host, Banji Fehintola, among others. The second day of the conference will feature women in investment management workshop, where Ms. Carla Harris, globally renowned speaker, author and Vice Chairman & Managing Director, Morgan Stanley, United States (US) will share her career experience as one of the few black women, who have risen to the top of the investment banking/asset management profession globally. She will be joined by other leading female executives in the investment industry as speakers at this event. “As Nigerians prepare for the 2019 general elections, we are certain to witness politicking of all forms, but there is a section of the country’s electorate, who are engaging in serious discussions that will impact the future. One is the issue of Nigeria’s attractiveness to global investors, which has dipped in recent times. In a fast-changing world with global competition for capital, Nigeria cannot afford to lag behind.”