The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) has finalised plans to formally confer over 190 Chief Executive Officers, Executive Directors, top Management staff of banks as well as Academics  with the Fellowship and Honourary Senior Membership of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria in Lagos on Saturday, October 27, 2018. Out of the 199 awardees to be honored, 11 would be conferred with Honorary Fellows, 110 Associates would be confered Fellows, while 78 would be honoured with the Honorary Senior Membership of the Institute, which is in recognition of the awardees’ services, commitment and contributions to the industry in particular and the nation’s economy in general. The Honorary Awardees include Mr. Peter Amangbo, HCIB, GMD/CEO, Zenith Bank Plc; Dr. Patrick S. Conteh, former Governor, Bank of Sierra Leone; Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, HCIB, Managing Director/CEO, First Bank Nigeria Ltd; Mr. Kennedy Uzoka, HCIB, GMD/CEO, United Bank for Africa Plc;Mr. Hassan Usman, Managing Director/CEO, Jaiz Bank Plc; Mr. Adetokunbo Mukhail Abiru, HCIB, GMD/CEO, Polaris Bank Plc; Mr. Ben Akabueze, Director General, Budget Office of the Federation and Former Commissioner for Economic Planning & Budget, Lagos State; Mrs. Tomi Somefun, MD/CEO, Unity Bank Plc; Mr Patrick Akinwuntan, HCIB, Managing Director/CEO, Ecobank Plc; Mrs. Hamda Ambah, Managing Director /CEO, FSDH Merchant Bank Ltd. Professor Eghosa Osaghae, Department of Political Science, University of Ibadan/former Vice Chancellor, Igbinedion University will be delivering a Lecture titled. “Sound Educational System and Human Capital Development: Imperative for Economic Growth and Development” with the knowing that higher education is a prerequisite for the production of highly competent experts, which in turn, contributes to the development of organizations and the economy at large. The Event will have the Executive Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki as the Special Guest of Honour, while Dr. Uche Olowu, FCIB, President/Chairman of Council, CIBN will Chair the occasion.