……Honoured at Seven Stars Luxury Hospitality and Lifestyle Awards and World Travel Awards Honourary Ambassador and Luxury Panel Member, Seven Star Award, Prince Massimiliano della Torre e Tasso, presenting the SIGNUM VIRTUTIS Seal of Excellence for Best Business Hotel-Africa to CEO/MD Transcorp Hilton Abuja, Mr Valentine Ozigbo, flanked by Ms Ece Vahapoglu, Panel Board Member of Seven Stars, at the 2018 Seven Stars Luxury Hospitality and Lifestyle Awards held in Crete, Greece at the weekend R to L: Max Della Torre e Tasso, presenting the SIGNUM VIRTUTIS Seal of Excellence for Best Business Hotel-Africa to Valentine Ozigbo, CEO/MD Transcorp Hilton Abuja. It was a night of double honours for Transcorp Hilton Abuja as the 5-star hotel was announced the winner of prestigious industry awards at simultaneous gala ceremonies on 2 continents.  For the 3rd consecutive year, the hotel was presented with SIGNUM VIRTUTIS, the seal of excellence, as the winner of the award for Seven Stars Business Hotel-Africa and Best Luxury Hotel at the Gala Ceremony of the 2018 Seven Stars Luxury Hospitality and Lifestyle Awards hosted at the Out of the Blue Capsis Elite Resort in Crete, Greece.  Remarkably, Valentine Ozigbo, MD/CEO Transcorp Hotels Plc, owners of Transcorp Hilton Abuja, was also honoured with the Seven Stars Pantheon of Hospitality award, an industry first designed to award the outstanding achievements and careers of the individuals behind the most successful properties around the world.  On the same night, for the 4th year in a row, Africa’s leading hospitality destination emerged winner of World Travel Awards in 5 categories, including Africa’s Leading Business Hotel at the 2018 Africa & Indian Ocean Gala Ceremony which took place at Durban International Convention Center in Durban, South Africa. The hotel also went home with prizes for Nigeria’s Leading Hotel, Nigeria’s Leading Business Hotel, Nigeria’s Leading MICE Hotel and Nigeria’s Leading Hotel Suite.  The hotel, which is owned by Transcorp Hotels Plc, the hospitality subsidiary of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc emerged winner of both prestigious awards through a voting process open to the public as well as the travel trade.  “We’re honoured to be recognized for our commitments to excellence in hospitality,” said Valentine Ozigbo, MD/CEO, Transcorp Hotels Plc. “The industry awards are a testament that our transformation initiatives are appreciated by the travelling public. They also come in recognition of Transcorp Hilton Abuja’s leadership in redefining hospitality not only in Nigeria but also globally. These awards are dedicated to our team members who work tirelessly, to our guests for choosing us always and to our late hotel manager, Ahmed Abdelghafar who died in Egypt after a brief illness.”  Commenting on the awards, Etienne Gailliez, General Manager, Transcorp Hilton Abuja said, “It is a great honour to receive World Travel Awards and Seven Stars Luxury Hospitality and Lifestyle Awards at the same time. “Every day our over 1000 Team Members work hard to create exceptional experiences for our guests; the awards are a fitting reward for the hard work and dedication of our Team Members.”  The Seven Stars Luxury Hospitality and Lifestyle Awards select only the best candidates in order to identify and to separate the exceptional from the very best. Winning this extremely exclusive award is an extraordinary achievement and signifies that a property is in an elite class.  World Travel Awards was established in 1993 to acknowledge, reward and celebrate excellence across all sectors of the tourism industry. Today, the World Travel Awards brand is recognised globally as the ultimate hallmark of quality, with winners setting the benchmark to which all others aspire. About Transcorp Hotels Plc Transcorp Hotels Plc (“Company”) is the hospitality subsidiary of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc. The Company owns and operates Transcorp Hilton Abuja, which provides luxury accommodation, world-class cuisine, conferencing and leisure facilities to business travellers and tourists from all over the world. The Company also holds 100 per cent interest in Transcorp Hotels Calabar Limited, which owns and operates the Transcorp Hotel in Calabar. For more information please visit  www.transcorphotelsplc.com  and/or www.abuja.hilton.com  About Hilton Hotels & Resorts For nearly 100 years, Hilton Hotels & Resorts has set the benchmark for hospitality around the world, providing new product innovations and services to meet guests’ evolving needs. With more than 575 hotels across six continents, Hilton Hotels & Resorts properties are located in the world’s most sought-after destinations for guests who know that where they stay matters. Hilton Honors members who book directly through preferred Hilton channels have access to instant benefits. Begin your journey at www.hilton.com, and learn more by visiting newsroom.hilton.com/hhr or following us on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram