The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the United Kingdom (UK) government, have agreed to collaborate on digital inclusion, cyber security, capacity building and bridging the  yawning access gap in the nation’s information communication technology (ICT) space. NCC’s Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Prof Umar Garba Danbatta, spoke on the collaboration after meeting with Senior Private Sector Development Adviser & Head, Digital Inclusion at Department of Foreign &International Development (DFID), Alessandra Lustrati, who led a high-powered delegation from the UK on courtesy visit to NCC headquarters in Anuja.. “This delegation is here to explore how the UK government can channel a significant intervention to the tune of £1.2 billion to create wealth and posterity in selected countries around the world. And this creation of posterity will leverage the power of ICT to provide access to unserved and underserved areas in the country. The intervention is also on cyber security and capacity building, three key areas,” he said. Earlier, Danbatta had told the delegation that there were 200 access gaps in the country and the Commission was looking at different rural technology solutions to bridge the gaps in two years, as against the 20 years projected. “With the right rural technology solution, we can do it faster, because at the rate we are plugging the gaps, it will take us about 20 years to conclude.  These gaps deprive 40 million Nigerians of access to telecoms services, out of 190 million. “The good thing about getting a solution to the access gap problem  is that, we know where the gaps are, we have our access gap map, we can actually point out where the gaps are,” he said. Speaking earlier, Lustrati told the EVC that the UK government was hoping to start the implementation of the intervention from as early as April, next year, noting that the project was deliberately made “country-specific” to enable countries like Nigeria choose the nature of the interventions they desire.