… Offenders may go to jail from the event venue R-L: CEO, Union Bank Plc., Emeka Emuwa; Director, Banking Supervision CBN, Ahmad Abdullahi; CEO, FSDH Merchant Bank, Hamda Ambah; CEO Access Bank Plc., Herbert Wigwe during a press briefing after bankers committee meeting Thursday in Lagos After the Bankers’ Committee meeting during the press briefing, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Deposit Money Banks (DMOs) have disclosed plans to deal with anyone found of guilty of abusing the Naira Notes. This, among others is the fallout of the bankers committee meeting held in Lagos. During the briefing, Mrs Hamda Ambah, the Chief Executive Officers of the FSDH Merchant Bank, disclosed that soon, a mobile court for prosecution of those trading the Naira and those abused Naira. According to her, the banking sector will equally issue a communique in this regard. The CEO Access Bank Plc., Herbert Wigwe talked about the issue of financial inclusion and services framework to guides operations further, also in the process of making sure that we educate the people that financial inclusion about their own responsibilities in the process. Reacting to the framework and guidelines on financial services under way soon, CEO, Union Bank Plc, Emeka Emuwa responded said the new guidelines and frameworks will be all inclusive for all operations been fintech or that involves in financial payment services across the country. And we are educating the public regarding the handling of Naira. And we are going to issue a communique that will disseminate information on the correct way to handle the Naira. And part of things we actually found out which we will put a stop is the fact that people sell our currency”, she said. On spreading of Naira at events, Amba stated that habit had to stop by let people understand that such act was bad even if they can change the attitude without persecute them. Speaking on how to monitor the events across the country, the Director Corporate Communications CBN, Isaac Okoroafor said the banking sector has been collaborating with ministry of justice and all other relevant agencies of the government especially the law enforcement agents which always present even in remote areas. “It is the duty of the law enforcement agents to catch offenders and take them to court. And we have been collaborating with the Nigeria Police on the issue of the Naira for a long time. And this collaboration will be intensified as we commence with this mobile courts. He reiterated that Nigeria police are everywhere, so whether you in the village or in the city they are there and their job is to catch anybody who abuses the Naira and send that person to jail. We realize that it cost a lot of money to print the Nigerian Naira notes; we also realize that CBN act 2007 is against any action by anybody, either by spraying, squeezing, dancing upon it, writing on it or hawking of it. The Act makes it an offense punishable by six months imprisonment or a fine of N50,000 or both”, he warned. Okoroafor added that, no culture demand money to be use in abuse way rather the money should be put in an envelope or on open tray for the purpose. Also speaking at the meeting, the Director, Banking Supervision, CBN, Ahmad Abdullahi noted that Committee looked into challenges the country was facing, though he said was not peculiar to Nigeria, but noted that the fact oil price was still strong was what was giving Nigeria confidence. Furthermore Abdullahi noted that they discussed the economy, particularly the global challenge adding that there is still relative confidence in the economy, in view of the rise in the prices of crude oil and the level of external reserve. He urged that all hands must be on the desk in order to sustain the momentum. He called for collaborative effort to ensure the challenges were tackled in order to attract growth. The Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank Plc Herbert Wigwe noted that as part of effort geared towards ensuring the growth of the real sector, the committee resolved that the discretionary cash reserved which was built over time should be channeled to agriculture and real sector in a very impact fully manner. He added that apart from agric, sum of the money will be channeled to the manufacturing sector to boost economy of the nation. 