Since the nation Nigeria, started producing oil in commercial quantity the dangerous and unhealthy practice of flaring gas into the atmosphere has continued unabated. Imagine, over the years, no government official can boldly said this actual date to starts the implementation of ending the gas flaring in the country. Almost all successive governments have made pronouncements on ending gas flaring. No government has actually flow up to the end. They have turn the issue to politics as some actually gave deadlines and ultimatums; yet nothing positive or concrete has come out of supposedly well-reasoned government positions. It is curious that the government official as today is still indecisive over the issue, there by openly shows their weak and low integrity to stakeholders at all times. According to the reports, some people of the Niger Delta region, most stakeholders and the International Oil Companies (IOCs) have come to one conclusion: if government is not serious about ending the environment-unfriendly practice. Then they are to face squarely and directly with IOCs, unbecoming and unfortunate to the region. The Federal Government has increased the penalty for gas flaring to $2 per 1,000 standard cubic feet of gas, SCF, from N10 per 1,000 SCF of the commodity flared. Gas flare A gas flare site in Niger Delta At the current exchange rate of N306.35 to a dollar, the $2 penalty translates to N612.7 per 1,00 SCF, while the $0.50 penalty translates to N153.175 per 1,000 SCF. As results of available data shows that the IOCs prefer to pay the paltry fines in lieu of harnessing the gas resource. As a result, gas flaring rose from 244.84 billion Standard Cubic Feet in 2016 to 287.59 billion in 2017 while gas flare penalty stands at N1n/m SCF. Though a threat was issued the other day by Minister of State for Petroleum Resources; Ibe Kachikwu that the government might revoke defaulting firms’ licences has been met with skepticism as government has never been able to summon the political will to enforce its own laws. According to experts in the sector, the harmful aspects of gas flaring have been well documented. Apart from depleting the ozone layer, it has deleterious effects on nature. The implications include a fact that whole farmlands can be negatively impacted, thus affecting the quantity and quality of farm yields. Besides, farmers cannot visit some of their farmlands because of extreme pollution. Aquatic or marine life is seriously threatened because of polluted waters, which endanger fish and other animals that depend on a healthy marine environment. The people who live in the areas where gas flaring takes place would tell you the story of how it was for them to engage in fishing and harvest great catches. These days, according to general public, the fishes are becoming scarce. The rate of attrition is high and standard of living is also affected. Wildlife is also a victim of the same unhealthy condition. Plants and animals do not have enough light and darkness to assist production. Cassava and yam production has been severely reduced. All of these have serious implications on the ecology of the land. Gas flaring has also been linked with the increased incidence of hypertension among people who live in the geographical zone. Some studies have also linked it with a form of cancer.  Skin rashes and other forms of strange diseases are also common, in this connection. Matters and particles flared into the air are often inhaled by residents of the area.  These are health hazards that are hardly discussed about this prevailing condition in the Niger Delta area. Some have gone down with lung and associated ailments. We do not need any scientific evidence (there is abundance of proof) to assert that people who live under that kind of environment have the chances of going down with debilitating illnesses. Often because these effects are slow in manifestation industry chiefs and businessmen along with governments never take regulatory actions seriously.  This is a tragedy for the people of the Niger Delta and the Nigerian citizenry. Across the world, there is an anti-pollution, pro-green movement and consciousness. Even cars are being propelled with environment-friendly engine systems. Energy systems are being redefined to meet the challenges arising. Global warming is a reality. And so weather patterns have changed radically. International commitments are being processed, signed and documented by nations to save the environment. The Paris Accord is one of such protocols. In most of the home countries of the IOCs they cannot by law do what they are currently doing in Nigeria. There is a flagrant disobedience to the culture of best practices, which they uphold in their countries. According to Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) the reduction of routine gas flaring involves ending routine gas flaring; boosting domestic supply diversifying and commercializing gas resources through Gas-Based Industries such as its Escravos Gas-to-Liquid (EGTL) Plant. CNL has reduced routine flaring by over 90 per cent from 2008 to 2017. CNL is the highest contributor of high quality gas to the domestic market. Also supplies about 40 per cent of Nigeria’s domestic gas consumption and has been the highest supplier of high quality domestic gas in Nigeria since 2015 Amidst the growing global trend in gas production and utilisation, the expectations for the gas sector in Nigeria remain high and provide opportunities for investment in the sector. Opportunities listed include transitioning from an oil based economy to a more integrated oil and gas economy and end routine gas flaring; deliberate exploration for non-associated gas to support the Nigeria Gas Master Plan, with a focus on high liquid yield non-associated gas resources to optimize the gas development project economics and the growth of new industries made possible from the abundant resources and competitively priced gas supply. The waste product (Gas Flare) has huge financial benefits, which harnessing well can bring on the economy giant strides. When the gas is converted to wealth for industrial use, it will create jobs and bring billions into the coffers of government. The current approach where we fritter away the nation’s patrimony because of the relatively easy way of selling crude is harmful to the overall polity. Nowhere in the world is this environmental hazard tolerated. We do not add any value to our natural resources. We simply have the IOCs explore, drill and tell us how many barrels they produce in a day and we sell it off to the international market. No doubt, this is a result of poor strategic thinking and shortsightedness. Oil, as we know as a source of energy, will gradually lose its pride of place. Shale Oil in the United States is already a threat to the general oil market. That apart, more nations have been admitted into the comity of oil-producing countries. What provisions have we made against the rainy day? especially now that the world has given warning signals about alternative sources of energy. That is also why the Federal Government should be firm and decisive. They should give a firm deadline and wield the big stick on defaulters. This will reduce the health hazards of oil exploration and improve the revenue base of the country. Mr. Kachikwu and Dr. Maikanti Baru have both given different dates for the end of gas flaring. While Kachikwu has stuck to the 2019 date (perhaps because it is an election year), Baru has said by 2020 all flaring must stop while the Director of Petroleum Resources , Mr. Mordecai Ladan targets 2020 to ends gas flaring. Looking at the statement in above, can easily said that they are not together. What is the real deadline? Or is this an extension of the tension between the two public officials? Whatever it is, the people of the Niger Delta are at the receiving end of the flip-flop that has dogged faithful implementation of the gas flaring policy. It is time for any serious government to restore some credibility to the process of gas flaring in the Country. 