Engr. Mansur Ahmed has emerged as the 10th President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN). He was elected at the 46th Annual General Meeting of the Association held on Wednesday 26th September 2018 in Lagos.  Engr. Ahmed takes over from Dr. Frank Udemba Jacobs; MON following the expiration of the latter’s 4-year tenure (2014-2018).  The National Council and members of MAN at the 46th AGM elected Engr. Ahmed to steer the affairs of the Association for the next 4 years. According to the statement endorsed by Segun Ajayi-Kadir, Director General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria Said Engr. Mansur Ahmed is the Group Executive Director, Government and Strategic Relations and Chief Executive Officer of Dangote Granite Mining Co. Ltd.  He has a first degree in Mechanical Engineering from Nottingham University (1972) and a Masters’ degree in Industrial Engineering and Administration from Cranfield Institute of Technology (now Cranfield University 1975). He also has a post graduate certificate in Investment Appraisal and Management of the Harvard Institute of International Development.  Engr. Ahmed was the pioneer Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission of Nigeria (ICRC), until his retirement in 2012. He led the Commission to win the Africa Investor PPP Champion of the Year 2010. He was at a time the Director-General of the Nigeria Economic Summit Group (NESG), where he led the conceptualization and development of the PPP policy framework for Nigeria.  He had a successful career at the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), where he served in various capacities including Managing Director and Chief Executive. In addition, he served, at various times, on many national Committees including the Nigerian Vision 2010 and Vision 2020 Committees; the Technical Committee of the National Privatization Council; and the Committee on the Assessment and Monitoring of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). He was also part of the National Economic Management Team that conceptualized, developed, and implemented policies and strategies to attract long-term finance for infrastructure development in Nigeria.  Earlier in his illustrious career, he managed quite a number manufacturing companies, including Bagauda Textiles Mills in Kano and Kaduna Textiles in Kaduna. He has also served on the Boards of notable and diverse business concerns, including Union Bank of Nigeria, GlaxoSmithKline Plc and Savanah SugarCompany Limited.  He belongs to several professional associations including the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Nigerian Institute of Management and the Institute of Directors of Nigeria. He has written many articles (published and unpublished) on a wide range of issues including economic reform, deregulation in the energy sector, corporate governance and other development issues.  The Caption Photo: The 10th President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engr. Mansur Ahmed