Ikeja Electric Plc says it has launched a new mobile app that will help the prevention of customers and employees against electrical hazards. It said the application, called i-Safe, was designed to guarantee customer and employee safety with real-time report on identified safety hazards within the network. According to a statement, the mobile app provides employees of Ikeja Electric the platform to take photographs of clear images of any identified hazard, such as falling poles, sagged wires and exposed underground cables and flag such hazards in other to prevent the occurrence of any accident that may emerge from the identified risk. The power firm’s Head of Corporate Communications, Mr Felix Ofulue, said the idea of developing the app was to consistently elevate its safety standards through several initiatives in order to reduce hazards and fatalities. “Our safety efforts are driven by the value we place on our customers and employees’ safety, which informed the need to introduce an initiative that will showcase our commitment, with a mentality of making safety a top priority for everyone in order to sustain our zero harm to both employees and customers,” he said. According to him, with the app, identified risks are captured and submitted to the appropriate department and will be tracked until they are rectified and closed out. Ofulue said, “Safety in a high risk sector such as the electricity industry cannot be overemphasised because if the safety standards are compromised, the resultant effect could be disastrous, leading to damage to property and even loss of lives; so it is imperative for us to continue to introduce programmes that will ensure safety of lives and property. “To download and install the app, customers are advised to visit the Google Play Store. At the moment, it is only available to Android users but plans are in full throttle to extend the service to iOS users in a very short while. “Over the years, Ikeja Electric has been at the forefront of innovative ideas geared towards protecting the health and safety concerns of customers and employees alike, an achievement that saw seen it win several awards for outstanding commitment to health, safety and environment at the 9jaSafe Hall of Fame Award in 2016, Health & Safety recognition Award by the Nigerian Institution of Safety Engineers.”