The Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF) has called for the enforcement of sanitation laws in Lagos State to serve as a deterrent to abuses on the environment. President, NCF Board of Trustees (BOT), Chief Philip Asiodu, made the call at the “2018 Walk for Nature”, an annual initiative aimed at raising environmental education in Nigeria. It was organised by NCF and the Lagos State Government. Asiodu, who lauded the 11th edition of the programme, called for its continuity and sustainability as well as enforcement of sanitation laws to save the environment. He said sanitary inspectors in the past enforced sanitation laws, which put people in check and curbed pollution because of adherence to the rules of hygiene. “In colonial days, we had them as sanitary inspectors called `Wole Wole’ and they can enter your house anytime,” he said. He said pollution had become a major menace in most cities of the world, adding that Lagos had more than 18 million people, which was more populous than other cities in Africa Asiodu called for change in lifestyle and consumption pattern which favour recycling and promotion of the refusal of plastics, their reuse and up cycling to save the environment. “We must continue to sensitise the public on the need to discourage single use of plastic. It is not bad if we return to the days where you are not allowed to eat and drink in public so that we can reduce plastic waste,” he said. He said millions of non-biodegradable materials were being disposed wrongly and go into the ocean, adding that it was a self-destructive looming disaster against the whole of humanity. The BOT president said the NCF had begun recycling programmes in 17 communities in Eti-Osa Local Government Area where residents earned money for their participation. He advised the state government to attach incentives to waste recycling to encourage participation and called for an embrace of up-cycling, which allows the use of old materials to reduce plastic pollution. Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, who was represented by the Commissioner for The Environment, Mr Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti, said pollution affected all aspects of human existence hence, the need to shift consumption pattern to environment-friendly methods. “To achieve this, both the government and the citizenry must work together to enforce policies that will prevent people from embarking on human activities that will have negative impact on our environment and by implication our society. “Our administration’s focus is on sustainable development, and we will not hesitate to review the state environmental policy where necessary to ensure a cleaner and healthier society,”he said. “It is on this basis that we have premised the concerted efforts of the state government at aggressive greening and landscaping through the redevelopment of abandoned areas, roads, setbacks and verges in the state to provide scenic gardens and conservation parks for the benefit of the over 23 million citizens of Lagos State,’’ he said.