Telecommunications giant MTN Nigeria has partnered with Lumos, a world renowned solar architect to launch mobile solar electricity systems for the benefit of families and businesses around the West African country.  Marketed as Lumos Mobile Electricity Service, powered by MTN, the solution promises to be a catalyst for growth, poised to improve the daily lives of Nigerians.  A similar service was launched in Uganda in 2014 by MTN Uganda in partnership with Fenix International, with the aim to connect 50,000 homes and businesses with ReadyPay Solar Power Systems impacting the lives of over 250,000 people living off-grid.  The service allows customers in rural Uganda to pay in installments using MTN Mobile Money from as little as 800/- per day with an upfront payment of 50,000/- which is inclusive of 7 free days of power.  The installments paid against the purchase amount that one pays determine how long they can access the power and after 18 months, customers own the ReadyPay Solar system for good.  As of January 2017, ReadyPay Solar Power customers had crossed the 100,000 mark. With an almost similar innovative product launched in Nigeria, locals can enjoy accessible, noise-free and fume-free electricity for everyday use and conveniently pay with airtime from a MTN mobile phone.  The mobile electricity device which comes with a 5-year warranty, can light up bulbs and power appliances like fans, televisions, cellphones and computers.  Speaking to Nigerian local press, MTN Nigeria CEO, Mr. Ferdi Moolman noted that over the years, MTN Nigeria has launched a variety of technology-driven products and initiatives which have helped to improve the lives of Nigerians solve problems and encourage intelligent minds with brilliant ideas to achieve more with natural resources.  “Our partnership with LUMOS was borne out of the need to provide safe, affordable electricity alternatives for Nigerians to uninterruptedly conduct their daily businesses. We at MTN value lives and the overall wellbeing of Nigerians and we’ll continue to put out initiatives that focus on providing life solutions,” Moolman reportedly said.  The Mobile Electricity kit comprises a solar panel, an indoor power unit, phone charging accessories and 2 LED light bulbs.