.The Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN) has announced the commencement of preparations for the 8th edition of its Awards for Marketing Excellence. The ADVAN Awards recognizes commitment and the fostering of professional excellence in advertising and marketing practice in Nigeria by recognizing good works by practitioners and institutions in the industry. This year’s event is scheduled to hold on Sunday 18th November at the Civic Center Victoria Island. Speaking on the awards, The Chairman of the Organizing Committee Mr. Austen Osokpor said that “The ADVAN Awards for Marketing Excellence will be presented to organizations and marketing professionals who have achieved extraordinary success from innovative and effective marketing practices.  He further stated  that The ADVAN Awards was highly respected because of its meticulous and transparent judging process, “To win an ADVAN award ,  you must submit your work for thorough screening by the judges, who evaluate all entries  based on international standards, this is what puts The ADVAN Awards ahead of all other awards  in the Industry”  Osokpor  said. The Judging Panel is a line-up of distinguished professionals in field of Marketing, which include, Dr Obiaya, Ikechukwu, PhD: Dean School of Media & Communication, Pan -Atlantic University, Mr. Lanre Adisa, MD/CCO, Noah’s Ark Communications, Mr. Benson Evbuomwan- Former Marketing Director Honey Well Plc, Mr. Seni Ogunkola, Head Marketing Communications,9Mobile Nigeria, Prof. Abigail Ogwezzy-Ndisika, PhD, MNIPR, arpa , Department of Mass Communications University of Lagos, Mrs Hannah Oyebanjo, Managing Director, Redwood Consulting. The ADVAN Awards for Marketing Excellence is undoubtedly the most respected Awards for Marketing Excellence in Nigeria, it has evolved over the years in response to new developments in marketing theory and practice to reflect the growing appreciation of the critical role of marketing as the vital source of value creation for business. It provides the opportunity for organizations to gain competitive advantage by having their projects, initiatives, contributions, products and services recognized. The Awards’ provide the ultimate platform for improving brand awareness, loyalty and retentions by increasing the respective recipients’ prestige. The ADVAN Awards winners are acknowledged as industry leaders and named the elite in their industry. This year’s edition promises to be a most competitive and exciting one, with two new Categories: Outstanding Marketing Professional of the Year and Product Packaging Award of the Year. Other categories include -Best Marketing Campaigns (Strategy and Execution), Innovation, Digital and Social Media Marketing, Consumer Promotion, Brand of the Year, Brand Manager of the Year, Marketing on a Shoestring, Public Sector Marketing, Corporate Social Responsibility, New Brand/Extension, Experiential Marketing, Future Leader Marketing, and Brand Journalist of the year. The ADVAN Award for Marketing Excellence West Africa, is a significant event that appreciates and commends the meticulous effort of marketing professionals towards the success and growth of the marketing industry in the West African sub region. The event stands as a motivation for marketing professionals in the industry, and also highlights the value of Marketing in organisational and societal development.