The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) on Wednesday disclosed that more than 2,000 export containers at the Lagos Ports Complex (LPC) have been discontinued from being processed as results of improper documentation by the shippers.  The Apapa Customs Area Controller, Comptroller Abubakar Bashir made this known during the courtesy visit by the Executives of the Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON) in Lagos.  Comptroller Bashir revealed that Maersk line reported a case of 2,000 containers of export trapped at the port while another shipping line (name withheld)  also confirmed  to the service that over 200 boxes were  also affected due to lack of genuine documents.  According to the customs boss, the consignments are designated for export but lack of proper documentation has hindered the processes of shipment.  He also noted that a private inspection agency had been invited to find the best way in resolving the trapped containers.  While emphasizing the need to adhere strictly to compliance, he added that the service had met with the concessionaires and shipping companies over the burning issue at hand.  He said officers and men of the service operated an open door policy and would always look abide by import and export guidelines.  “Let me start with the problem we have with export today; only one company, and that is Maersk line reported that they have almost 2,000 containers and yesterday when we are in a meeting, another shipping company was talking about 200 containers.   “You know we have quite a number of shipping companies here, others have not reported their own figure but definitely we are looking at about 2,000 containers that are hanging due to lack of proper documentation so far.   “Certainly, what we intend to do as a service is that I have already directed the officer in charges of revenue to call the designated agency appointed by the government to issue CCI certificate for the export and see if we can have a parley with some of the exporters to see if we can give them entry measures to export the items within the scope of compliance.  “We have already set that in motion and I think we shall be meeting tomorrow,” he stressed.   The Caption Photo: The Apapa Customs Area Controller, Comptroller Abubakar Bashir 