Delivered at the 26th Seminar for Finance Correspondents & Business Editors, held at the Reverton Hotel & Suites, Lokoja, Kogi State, from October 24-26, 2018. KEYNOTE ADDRESS Keynote Address by the Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, delivered at the 26th Seminar for Finance Correspondents & Business Editors, held at the Reverton Hotel & Suites, Lokoja, Kogi State from October 24-26, 2018.
Protocols
Distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen, it is my delight and pleasure to be invited to present a keynote address at this 26th Seminar for Finance Correspondents and Business Editors holding here in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital. I am particularly pleased to deliver this address to you today, as members of the fourth estate of the realm and by extension, watch dogs of society. The theme of this Seminar: “Monetary Policy Implementation amidst Global Economic Protectionism” is relevant, considering the implications of protectionism and the challenges it poses to the effective implementation of monetary policy. The theme of the Seminar is not only apt, but timely, considering the recent global developments in international trade. To put this keynote address in proper perspective, it is pertinent to familiarize you with the key issues. Protectionism refers to the of restriction of trade between nations, utilizing means such as tariffs on imported goods, restrictive quotas, and a variety of other inhibitive government regulations, designed to discourage imports and prevent the foreign dominance of local markets. Protectionism directly contrasts with the system of free trade in which the trading in goods and services between or within countries flows unobstructed by trade restrictions. At the heart of protectionist policies is the desire to spur the domestic economy for enhanced local production and to discourage dumping in order to protect domestic industries from foreign take-over or competition. Monetary Policy refers to the actions taken by the Central Bank to regulate the value, supply and cost of money in the economy with a view to achieving Government’s macroeconomic objectives. For many countries, the objectives of monetary policy are explicitly stated in the laws establishing the Central Bank, while for others, they are not. The objectives of monetary policy may vary from country to country, but there are two main views. The first view calls for monetary policy to achieve price stability, while the second seeks to achieve price stability, alongside other macroeconomic objectives. In perspective, It is important that we address the origin of the recent wave of global protectionism across the globe. Since the Great Depression, the Global Financial Crisis of 2008 is widely known to be the most significant setback for the global economy. The aftermath of the crisis has highlighted governance issues which have impacted on the financial sector with significant implications for international trade. The “great trade collapse” which resulted from the crisis also reflected the policy choices of countries deeply integrated into the global trading system which shifted their trade policy orientation from an era of free trade to the adoption of protectionist measures in an effort to cushion the effects of the crisis on their domestic economies. Interventions such as import restrictions, export subsidies, and anti-dumping measures are examples of “beggar-thy-neighbor” policies adopted by countries, which have weakened the liberal global trading system. However, while many countries have appealed against such measures, not all have done so. In today’s world, Countries have used trade protection repeatedly as a policy to resolve negative perceptions and shocks in their respective countries. In other words, should Nigeria with insatiable taste for foreign goods to the detriment of the domestic economic realities( unemployment and imported inflation) throw its borders open to indiscriminate importation of goods and services? This was the prevailing condition in Nigeria before the introduction of restriction of official foreign exchange for the importation of 41 items. It was an eclectic policy carefully crafted with a view to reversing the multiple challenges of dwindling foreign reserves, contracting GDP-recession and an embarrassing rise in the level of unemployment confronting the economy. The implementation of the 41 items, in addition to the other complementary macroeconomic policies, no doubt, was effective in lifting the Nigerian economy out of recession. For example, the real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 1.40 per cent in the third quarter of 2017, up from 0.72 per cent, and contraction of 0.91 per cent in the second and first quarter of 2017, respectively. Also, there has been improved reserve accretion to the country’s reserve. Given these salutary effects on the economy; it can be argued that the stance of Classical economists argued that trade protectionism notwithstanding, to override the utility of selective protection in form of the 41 items to resolve the challenges facing the economy can hardly be overemphasized. Pragmatic economic nationalism therefore, would ordinarily vote in favour of protecting the domestic economy, as long as it does not infringe upon the tenets of “beggar-thy-neighbor” policies. Distinguished participants, in truth, the broad nature of this topic is one that cannot be completely exhausted within this keynote address. However, I urge you to continue to enlighten and inform your wide and diverse audiences on the importance of the subject matter. Once it is done, we believe our citizens would better appreciate the laudable efforts made by the monetary authorities in improving the lives of Nigerians through its monetary policy initiatives. It is also my belief that this Seminar will facilitate robust interaction, leading to a deeper understanding of the theme for in-depth discussions. We hope that this seminar enriches your knowledge and that you become advocates of our interventions in enlightening the pubic and other stakeholders.
It is on this note that I formally declare open the 26th Edition of the Seminar for Finance Correspondents and Business Editors. I wish you all fruitful deliberations and a pleasant stay in Lokoja. Thank you and for your kind attention and God bless. Godwin I. Emefiele, CON
Governor
Central Bank of Nigeria
October 24-26, 2018