Ikeja Electric Plc (IE) and XT Monitor have organised a four-day medical outreach for the benefit of communities within its network. The outreach, which focuses on the prevention and management of non-communicable diseases with special attention to diabetes and hypertension amongst others, was facilitated by a United States Medical Mission (USMM) comprising five medical specialists and is providing free treatment to over 1,500 beneficiaries. According to the Head of Corporate Communications for Ikeja Electric, Felix Ofulue, the exercise was in line with objectives of the company’s corporate social responsibility programme, which entails giving back to communities in which it operates. The outreach will be held across the different locations within its network coverage. He noted that this initiative, which is happening for the second time in two years, demonstrates IE’s commitment to the wellbeing of customers within its network. “Firstly, as a responsible business, we are concerned about the wellbeing of our customers. Again, this initiative is also geared towards supporting the efforts of government in providing accessible healthcare to some of the underserved communities within Ikeja Electric’s network. We have a long history of providing medicare and other beneficial projects that aim at improving the wellbeing of residents within its network. The outreach will be held across the six business Units of the Company. “You will recall that in the recent past, we have deployed quite a number of healthcare interventions in communities under our network, so another part of the concept is also to stimulate interest and stir other notable institutions to embrace the responsibility of assisting in providing affordable healthcare to the underserved. We are hoping that the residents of these communities will make good use of the opportunity,” he said. The Managing Director of XT Monitor, Kayode Adeoti, said: “The medical outreach aligns with our strategy of engagement with the communities and also provides a platform to demonstrate that we and our principal, Ikeja Electric care for the wellbeing of the customers in the communities where we work. It is our hope that the impact will be significant and far-reaching for the beneficiaries”.