First Bank of Nigeria Limited says it plans to engage with students on business ethics at the year’s edition of its ‘ethics challenge’ programme as part of efforts at shaping the future of the investment industry in Nigeria. In a statement, it said the ethics challenge, one of the university outreach programmes organised by CFA Society Nigeria for university students, aimed to promote the highest standards of ethics, education, and professional excellence in the investment industry. It added that this aligned with the corporate responsibility and sustainability strategic approach and the objective of the bank’s endowment programme, the Samuel Asabia chair for business ethics, at the University of Lagos. According to FirstBank’s management, the partnership will also showcase the bank’s support for education among youths and the drive for nation building. Speaking on the event scheduled for November in Lagos and Abuja, the Group Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications, First Bank of Nigeria, Folake Ani-Mumuney, said that it was a part of the bank’s ambition to raise the next generation of financial analysts who will operate under the appropriate guiding principles. She stated, “This partnership is an improvement over last year’s edition of the programme. We realised the need to carry out adequate engagement with students as regards business ethics. That way, we will be shaping the future of the investment industry in Nigeria.” With seven universities competing in the 2017 ethics challenge, the statement added, the CFA Society was set to increase the impact of the 2018 version by expanding the number of participating universities from seven to 12, including at least one West African university. This year, it added, the programme would run regional competitions in Abuja and Lagos before running a national final in Lagos. “Also, in line with its ‘Women in Investment Management Initiative’ and to encourage women inclusion, the CFA society has added a requirement that each team must be represented by an equal number of female and male students,” it stated. Ani-Mumuney stated that it hoped that these two strategic improvements would position the competition to enable the bank to make bigger impact through the ethics challenge.