The Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan AdeyeyeOgunwusi has commended Airtel Nigeria for its sponsorship of Olojo Festival – a cultural celebration of the first dusk and dawn in Yoruba land. Speaking during the visit of Airtel team to the monarch’s palace, Oba Ogunwusi said: “On behalf of entire people of Oduduwa, I want to appreciate Airtel for being the official partner to Olojo Festival – the celebration of the first dawn. This is a festival that actually accommodate the entire Yoruba race. It’s our new year which started several thousands of years ago. “We are upholding our heritage and culture. On behalf of the entire omoluwabi race we appreciate Airtel and we know that they will do better next year. We are enjoying their telecommunications service and we will continue to partner with them. We appreciate the company and their entire staff for their support.” Airtel Nigeria Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Segun Ogunsanya, expressed the company’s delight to be associated with the festival. “We were very much delighted to be associated with the Olojo festival and that is why we decided to support in our own little way. We also praise Eledumare for a successful event. “At Airtel, we are committed to connecting and empowering people. We are also passionate about our cultural heritage. It is for these reasons that we embraced the opportunity to join you in hosting the Olojo Festival. We believe that culture can play a significant role if we must be successful as a nation.  We admire your influential role as custodian of the Yoruba culture and we encourage you to continue to blaze the trail as far as cultural renaissance is concerned,” he said. This year’s event themed: “The Olojo Festival: An Impactful Domestic Tourism Product”, was held from Tuesday, September 18 to Monday, October 1, 2018 at Ile-Ife in Osun State with many events for each day. Accenture to help AB InBev improve sales and distribution operations in Africa with new Distributor Management System Accenture is helping AB InBev (Euronext: ABI) (NYSE: BUD) (MEXBOL: ANB) (JSE: ANH), the world’s largest brewer, better manage its sales and distribution operations in Africa with the Accenture NewsPage Distributor Management System (DMS). A fully integrated distributor management and sales force automation system, Accenture DMS covers the complete down-stream supply chain, providing consumer goods companies with accurate, reliable data on secondary sales to help them control promotions; improve productivity; and streamline inventory and sales processes and distributor claims. Under the terms of the three-year contract, Accenture is helping AB InBev implement the latest version of DMS for its operations in Africa. This includes the initial roll-out of the system in Mozambique, Zambia, Ghana and Nigeria, as well as the upgrade of the system in Tanzania and Uganda, where AB InBev has already been using DMS for more than three years.